Pennfield – Over 100 parents and friends of Pennfield School crowded into the auditorium on Thursday for the school’s first Spring Sing.

All 100 students in the K-4 District 10 school gathered on stage to sing their favourite Easter songs and other selections.

Principal Ann Fanjoy, welcoming the audience, thanked the Pennfield teaching and non-teaching staff and students for their efforts in preparing the concert. She especially thanked their “resident music specialist,” Grade 4 teacher June Justason, who directed the students.

St. Andrews playground is case study for other towns

The St. Andrews Creative Playground project was used as a case study at a community collaborative playground conference March 27 held at UNB-Fredericton.

Roughly 70 childhood educators, home and school representatives, and others attended the conference.

“They were planning the conference and asked us to come. There were other ones there with developing playground ideas but ours was the furthest along,” said Alan Dunfield, co-project co-ordinator with Rob Stephenson.

“Parents are frustrated by the prices of catalogue playgrounds and the inability to do much about it. They’re also increasingly aware of the need for safe playgrounds. Each of the groups there were facing some sort of difficulty with their playgrounds, and ours was an exciting option,” Dunfield said.

Point Lepreau won Section A of the St. Stephen Labatt Industrial Curling playoffs. Bill French of Labatt’s presented the team with their awards at the league banquet Thursday. Team members included Lyle Hall (second), Rocky McLeod (mate), Bill Johnson (skip) and Jim Shaw (lead).

It was routine business only when Milltown town fathers met Tuesday night in the town hall chambers in regular session.

The session also marked the end of an era for Milltown. Harry Kirk officially stepped down and handed over the reins of office of town clerk to Ralph Nutter.

Mayor Alfred Nickson said of Kirk: “Harry has been a good and faithful servant. His knowledge of town affairs is vast and he has helped many a new council over the initial hurdles. He has always displayed the same affability to all and has never refused any reasonable request. His work has been an example to our younger people.

“It will be difficult to replace him fully but we have in Ralph Nutter a young man who will go far in civic affairs. He has been fully endorsed by Mr. Kirk and we feel rightly so.”

It looks like someone will have to update the lyrics of the now, near-traditional air I’m Dreaming of a White Christmas to I’m Dreaming of a White Easter, if indications of the past few days are upheld. Snow to a depth of two inches was dumped on this area Monday, federal election day.

The egg collection taken in the schools of St. Stephen and Milltown yesterday by the Ladies’ Advisory Board of Chipman Memorial Hospital resulted in securing about 900 eggs for the hospital. Each pupil was asked to bring one egg at the afternoon session and members of the advisory board were present at the various schools to receive the donations. Apparently, every pupil brought a contribution.

Milltown – Our April showers have brought the St. Croix to the high-water mark, running four feet over the cotton mill dam. We are nearing the 10th anniversary of the flooding of the weave shed.

Eugene Thornton has purchased the McGarrity lot on the bank of the river at the Cove and is breaking ground for the erection of a store.

C. E. Spooner now has his newspaper plant established in the rooms formerly occupied by the Courier in the Breen building on King Street and expects to issue the first number of the Daily News this week.

Joanne Mires has been working for The Saint Croix Courier since the fall of 1982 and began writing her 30 Years Ago column in 1994.