The latest Target Spring Designer Collection celebrates global, women-owned designers, and features an incredible lineup with products from Agua Bendita, Fe Noel, and RHODE. The limited-edition collection showcases each designer’s special aesthetic and will have you packing your bags for your next getaway! The latest release will be available on Target.com and in select Target stores beginning Saturday, April 15th. With more than 100 warm weather apparel pieces and accessories, this year’s collection is both affordable and inclusive. The prices in the collection will range from $15-$48 (yes, everything is under $50!) with sizing ranging from XXS-4X. Keep reading to learn more about each designer and to see a few of my favorite pieces from the collection!

Agua Bendita has quickly become one of my go-to warm weather brands! Their beautiful, artful handmade prints are inspired by the enchanting biodiversity and culture of Latin America. The two female founders, Mariana Hinestroza and Catalina Álvarez, both from Medellín, Colombia originally met in college while studying fashion design. The brand began humbly with the duo making handcrafted swimsuits for friends and family and has since evolved into a complete design house producing Ready-to-Wear, Swim, and Accessories. Their latest Agua Bendita for Target Collection offers swim, ready-to-wear (hello matching sets!), and accessories with handmade prints and details celebrating the beauty and nature of their home country, Colombia.

Fe Noel was founded by Felisha “Fe” Noel in celebration of her Grenadian heritage. Fe’s vibrant spirit and “make life beautiful” philosophy is immediately evident in her designs that always feature bold prints and bright pops of color throughout. The latest Fe Noel for Target Collection features swim, pants, and coverups, as well as bold PJ sets and cat-eye sunglasses (that I have my eyes on!).

RHODE was founded by lifelong friends Phoebe Vickers and Purna Khatau. Taking inspiration from handmade vintage prints and the concept of feminine joy, signature RHODE pieces are unfussy, soulful, and ready for anything! The RHODE for Target Collection features includes beautiful dresses, towels, and bags in a wide range of colorful designs and prints inspired by the duo’s global travels.