Warren County High School produces some great athletes, great artists and great pupils, however, the school also produces some great leaders. In Gatlinburg, from March 29 to 31, students from the high school attended the FCCLA State Leadership Conference, competing in a multitude of categories. With advisors Megan Sager, Chef Frank Horton and CTE Director Tracy Risinger by the students’ side, many amazing accomplishments were seen.

Kai Greene earned third place in culinary arts for creating two plates that included a honey Dijon pork chop, parmesan risotto and roasted broccoli.

Jaytton Baker and Jay Guevara placed first in food innovations where they created two new cookie recipes. One recipe had to use brown sugar and the other had to use white sugar. The cookies had to use less than 10 grams of sugar and appeal to other high schoolers. This goal was accomplished with their Triple Chocolate Brownie cookie and their Brown Sugar Snickerdoodle cookie. Their project was named “Baker Street Bakery.”

Hailey Alivo, Lauren Looper and Madison Mabe secured second place in hospitality, tourism and recreation. “Busy Street Pizzeria,” the group’s project, was a new restaurant concept including a menu, prices, customer service strategies and a business website.

Adria De La Cruz landed a second-place spot for her project in interpersonal communications. Her project was called “A Two Way Street,” in which she surveyed students to get their opinions on whether their teachers taught in multiple styles. She then surveyed teachers to see if the teachers thought they taught in multiple styles. Ultimately, it led to De La Cruz surveying the various learning styles that work for students.

Lesly Lara’s project, “The Laras' Health Adventure,” earned her first place in nutrition and wellness. For the project, Lara tracked her family’s nutritional intake for four weeks. With the data she collected, she was able to create a 10-day meal plan that ensured optimal nutrition for her family.

Colin Newsom competed in sports nutrition with his project, “Clutch Time!” This project earned Newsom a second-place spot. The project tracked nutritional intake and exercise of teenage athletes. This data was then compared to the recommended amounts and used to create goal plans and meal plans.

Each of these students will be advancing to the FCCLA National Leadership Conference in Denver, Colorado this summer. According to Sager, these students will make it far in their aspirations. “FCCLA State Leadership Conference is a fun way to learn new skills, network with students from around the state and compete in various competitions,” she stated. The students also got to participate in an escape room on the trip. Although the experience was memorable, the team did not beat the clock in escaping. “Overall, the trip was awesome,” she noted. “We all had a fun time! I am so incredibly proud of these students’ accomplishments. Placing first, second or third in state is no small feat. These students embody what FCCLA is about. They are hardworking and kind leaders who will accomplish great things.”