Former Coalition Home Affairs Minister Karen Andrew has announced she’s retiring from the Opposition frontbench and won’t seek re-election after this parliamentary term, prompting a reshuffle of the Shadow Ministry.

The Gold Coast MP said the Liberal Party has a “lot of work to do” to rebuild its standing in Queensland and across the nation and become better at communicating its principles.

“I believe wholly and solely in the principles of the Liberal Party,” Ms. Andrews asserted.

“There’s no one single thing that brought me to the conclusion that I wouldn’t seek re-election. There’s probably a range of factors. I’m very comfortable with the decision that I made.”

The former engineer has held the seat of McPherson since 2010 and was a cabinet minister from 2018 until 2022.

Ms. Andrews said she would not campaign against the Indigenous Voice although she did not support the Albanese government’s proposed wording.

“I will work towards making sure that the people on the southern Gold Coast have the opportunity to understand the question, but I want to do that in a very neutral way. I won’t be out there wearing a shirt that says vote ‘No.’ This is a decision for each and every Australian, and I want to make sure that people are informed and that they make a decision that they are comfortable with.”

Opposition Leader Peter Dutton has appointed Jacinta Price as the Shadow Minister for Indigenous Australians which was vacated by Julian Leeser who resigned from the role to campaign for the ‘Yes’ case in the Indigenous Voice referendum.

Mr. Dutton described Senator Price who has been campaigning for the ‘No’ case, as “a warrior for Indigenous Australians who has always fought hard to improve the lives of Indigenous women and kids.”

National Party leader David Littleproud suggested that Senator Price was the best person for the role.

The Country Liberal Party senator has sat in the Nationals party room since being elected last year.

Her promotion brings the number of Nationals in the shadow cabinet to seven, well above their quota within the coalition with the Liberals.

Senator Price said she was “very humbled and very grateful that the leadership has entrusted me to carry out this on behalf of Indigenous Australians.”

Liberal senator James Paterson will replace Ms. Andrews in the Home Affairs portfolio.

Senator Michaelia Cash will take over Attorney-General responsibilities from Mr. Leeser.

Kerrynne Liddle will take on Child Protection and Prevention of Family Violence.