The best Four Seasons in Asia are also some of the best Four Seasons hotels & resorts in the world.

Four Seasons is a particularly outstanding hotel brand, and Four Seasons hotels are usually the best option in any resort area. Wherever you decide to stay, at a Four Seasons hotel, any Ritz-Carlton, St. Regis, Fairmont, Park Hyatt, or at any other luxury hotels, book via our luxury travel concierge. We offer free upgrades, free breakfasts, and free perks (as well as your usual Marriott Bonvoy Hyatt, etc., points and status benefits). See what our clients say about us and how thrilled they are with the extra benefits we provide.

Flanked by a mile-long beach and limestone cliffs, Four Seasons Resort Langkawi is all about the pool, the beach, and relaxation. Wake up with a morning swim in your plunge pool, then head out to explore the mysterious mangrove forests, winding rivers, and ancient sea stacks that make up the landscape.

Four Seasons is one of the best hotels in Langkawi. We have compared Four Seasons Resort Langkawi vs. Ritz-Carlton Langkawi vs. St. Regis Langkawi vs. The Datai Langkawi separately. In fact, Four Seasons Resort Langkawi was named the highest-ranked Resort in Malaysia by Condé Nast Traveler’s 2020 Readers’ Choice Award.

Langkawi is an archipelago of 100 islands, 30 km offshore in the Andaman Sea. Most travelers will stay on the large Langkawi Island, where most of the area’s 750 hotels are located. The Four Seasons is located on the quieter northern side of the island, along a mile-long sandy beach in beautifully landscaped gardens. The resort feels secluded, yet the airport is only 25 minutes away. The hotel is a short boat ride from the Klim Karst conservation area, where you can spot macaque monkeys, sea otters, and the unique walking mudskipper fish.

Nestled within the Langkawi UNESCO Global Geopark, the hotel’s resplendent grounds are home to several tropical bird species, including hornbills. This resort is boutique in size, with 48 acres and 91 rooms. A heck of a lot of beaches and very few people. The public spaces have calming, high blue walls, tranquil reflection pools, and huge green spaces, with the architecture brilliantly reflecting the Arabic and Asian history of the island.

Malaysian people are the secret ingredient. They love life (and especially food) and take the responsibility of hospitality very seriously. They smile a lot. The staff at Four Seasons Langkawi are amazing when it comes to remembering how you like your coffee, your favorite wine, where you like to sit.

Four Seasons Langkawi offers all the services expected from a 5-star resort hotel. Three restaurants, bars, a spa, gym, tennis courts, water sports, and swimming pools, including an adults-only quiet pool with private cabanas. We loved the pool-side service with mini treats such as frozen watermelon and strawberry smoothies offered every 30 minutes or so. There are a few nice surprises, like the complimentary bike hire (48 acres remember) and the ping-pong tables.

If you’re in the mood for pampering, the spa is a haven of peace and beauty. Many happy hours can be spent whiling away the afternoon, lounging on one of the floating relaxation beds over the reflection pool! A wide range of massages, facials, scrubs, wraps, and salon treatments are available in one of the spacious treatment pavilions.

Rooms are spacious starting at 68 square meters, with outdoor spaces at the front (sun loungers, table, and chairs overlooking the gardens) and rear (outdoor jacuzzi and shower in a walled garden).

Four Seasons Resort Maldives at Landaa Giraavaru is an exclusive resort in the Baa Atoll of the Maldives. This Atoll is a natural UNESCO Biosphere Reserve wilderness where iridescent blues, jungle greens and dazzling whites meet innovation, conservation and wellness.

The resort consists of 111 spacious villas, ranging from beachfront to overwater villas, all of which feature private balconies and plunge pools. The resort boasts four restaurants and two bars, offering a range of international and local cuisine. Snorkel with mantas in aquarium-like waters, rehabilitate sea turtles in our Marine Discovery Centre, experience world-class wellness at AyurMa and indulge in more-than-Michelin-starred dining at Blu Beach Club.

What would you do with an island all to yourself? At the five-acre UNESCO haven of Four Seasons Maldives Private Island at Voavah, the answer is “anything.” Drop your boundaries, expand your horizons, retreat, explore, connect, or celebrate. With your own 19-metre (62-foot) yacht, dive center, spa, Beach House, seven bedrooms, and resident pod of dolphins, Voavah invites you – and up to 21 guests – to dream with your eyes open. One island. One booking. One extraordinary hideaway.

Four Seasons Resort The Nam Hai is a five-star luxury resort idyllic location on Vietnam’s culturally rich central coast. The Nam Hai offers a portal to three extraordinary UNESCO World Heritage sites and a breezy respite on the country’s most celebrated beach. The resort features 60 private villas, each with its own infinity pool, private beach, restaurants, spa, and other amenities. Sail the East Sea by kayak, explore the glory of imperial Hue, take a boat tour of Ha Long Bay or or savor quiet moments in your own tranquil villa.

Four Seasons Bali at Jimbaran Bay is a located on the white sands of Jimbaran Bay in Bali, Indonesia. Sheltered in a calm bay along three miles of sand, the breezy villas channel an authentic Balinese village. Yoga, snorkel, jet ski, and trek all to unforgettable views of the island’s stunning landscapes and inimitable culture. The hotel also offers a spa, private beach, and two restaurants.

Four Seasons Hotel Istanbul at the Bosphorus is situated on the banks of the Bosphorus River and has a huge waterfront terrace with a large swimming pool lined by sun loungers and a private boat dock. The hotel offers stunning views of the city and breathtaking sunsets. The private boat dock links this hotel to its sister property, the Four Seasons Istanbul in Sultanahmet, which is ideal for exploring Istanbul’s historic sites.

Four Seasons Hotel Istanbul at the Bosphorus has a range of amenities and services all set under stunning Ottoman architecture. There’s a spa, fitness center, and a pillared underground swimming hall with music playing underwater. The hotel also offers an extensive menu of Turkish and international cuisine and a selection of fine wines and spirits.

Four Seasons Resort Maldives at Kuda Huraa gently rises from a sheet of Maldivian turquoise. At Kuda Huraa it’s hard to tell where the ocean ends and sky begins. Located on a private island in the North Male Atoll, the resort offers guests a unique and tranquil experience surrounded by natural beauty.

The resort features stunning overwater villas, two restaurants, a spa, and a range of activities to keep guests entertained. Guests can relax on the pristine white sand beaches, swim in the crystal-clear lagoon, go snorkeling or diving among the vibrant coral reefs, or take a sunset cruise on a traditional dhoni boat. The resort is also home to a marine conservation center dedicated to protecting the local marine life.

Discover the welcoming embrace of a lagoon, flower gardens, a private spa island, and spacious new Beach Pavilion hideaways in a charming village setting, awarded a third-consecutive Forbes Five-Star rating in 2023.

Nestled among emerald rice fields, Four Seasons Resort Chiang Mai is a sanctuary of well-being, perfect for unwinding, recharging, and finding your fulfillment with individually-tailored experiences. Journey on the path to well-being on your own terms – from a private pavilion overlooking the verdant landscape or the plush interiors of an exclusive residence.

Four Seasons Resort Chiang Mai is a five-star luxury resort located in the foothills of Thailand’s Doi Suthep Mountain. The resort offers guests a serene and peaceful atmosphere with beautifully landscaped gardens and terraces, surrounded by lush tropical forests and breathtaking mountain views. Guests can enjoy the outdoor pool and spa, as well as various restaurants and bars. The resort also offers activities for families and couples, such as tennis, cooking classes, and elephant rides.

Float above treetops on a dramatic suspension bridge and cross into a different world. With locally inspired experiences and rice bowl-shaped architecture set against the lush Ayung River Valley, this Resort takes you closer to the heart and soul of Bali.

The resort perfectly blends modern luxury and traditional Balinese style and offers an authentic experience of the local culture. The property features elegant guestrooms, villas, and suites with private terraces and breathtaking views of the river valley below. Guests can find plenty of activities, including yoga classes, spa treatments, and Balinese cooking classes.

Welcome to the adventure of a lifetime in the natural surroundings of northern Thailand, bordering Myanmar and Laos. Interact with rescued elephants, explore spectacular mountain trails or bamboo jungles and unwind in luxury tents. The Four Seasons Golden Triangle Thailand is located in the heart of Chiang Rai, Thailand. This boutique hotel offers guests a unique experience with its contemporary design, sophisticated décor, and stylish furnishings. Guests will enjoy various amenities, such as an outdoor swimming pool, a spa and health club, a children’s club, a business center, and a restaurant. The hotel also offers complimentary Wi-Fi, room service, and free parking.

Four Seasons Resort Seychelles is an award-winning luxury resort located on the island of Mahé in the Seychelles archipelago. Enjoy the gentle ocean breeze that floats up the granite hillside and into your tree-house villa. Whether it’s just the two of you, or the extended family, spend days lounging by your private pool and playing in the turquoise waters of Petite Anse bay, or find bliss at our hilltop Spa before a sunset meal on a deserted beach.

With stunningly beautiful beaches, lush tropical gardens, and a crystal-clear bay, the resort provides guests with an unforgettable experience. No detail has been overlooked from the world-class amenities and service to the exquisite cuisine and spa treatments. Guests can choose from a variety of luxurious overwater villas, beachfront villas, and suites, all of which feature modern amenities and sweeping views of the Indian Ocean. The resort also offers a variety of activities, including diving and snorkeling, kayaking, tennis and golf.

COPYRIGHT 2014 - 2023 LUXURY TRAVEL DIARY. DUPLICATION OUTSIDE OF LUXURYTRAVELDIARY. COM IS EXPRESSLY FORBIDDEN.

Note: All benefits & upgrades subject to availability & Terms & Conditions, enquire for more information. Benefits offered correct at the time of writing but may be amended at discretion of the vendor. Posts may be sponsored by the proprietor or brand being appraised. All opinions remain our own & are in no way influenced.