Tennis has a long history of rivalries, and one of the most recent was between the rising Spanish star Carlos Alcaraz and the talented Italian Jannik Sinner. According to Stefanos Tsitsipas, who is getting ready to make his ATP 500 debut in Barcelona, the rivalry even compares to that between two mega sports icons like Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal, and intrigues the competitors themselves.

Tsitsipas commented: “Alcaraz-Sinner is a great rivalry in my opinion, starting from the fact that they are two players practically the same age, something similar to the Nadal-Federer’s rivalry, although it is true that there was a significant age gap between them. Maybe the rivalries I will have, by generation, will be with Alexander Zverev or Nick Kyrgios.”

Ranked no.2, Carlos has managed to achieve a compiled 19-2 record in 2023. Carlos is currently competing in Barcelona where he ousted the world no.79 Nuno Borges 6-3 6-1.

Carlos Alcaraz will fight against the world no.25 Roberto Bautista Agut in the 3rd round. The head to head is 1-0 for Alcaraz.

The Spaniard conquered 2 titles in 2023 in Buenos Aires and Indian Wells. Alcaraz reached the final in Rio de Janeiro (Rio Open).

The Spaniard won 8 titles in his career: 3 on hard courts and 5 on clay courts. (See the list of his titles)

He is also scheduled to play in Rome (Internazionali BNL d’Italia) on the 10th of May and () on the 28th of May.

Ranked world no.8 (career-high), Jannik played his last match on the 15th of April when he lost to world no.7 Holger Rune 1-6 7-5 7-5 in the semifinal in Monte-Carlo Rolex Masters (draw).

This season Jannik has managed to achieve an overall 24-6 match record. This year, the Italian conquered 1 tournament in Montpellier. Sinner got to the final in Rotterdam and Miami.

He is also scheduled to play in Rome (Internazionali BNL d’Italia) on the 10th of May and () on the 28th of May.

Carlos Alcaraz and Jannik Sinner clashed against each other 7 times. Their current record is 4-3 for Alcaraz. Before, the last time they locked horns, Jannik Sinner won 6-7(4) 6-4 6-2 in the semifinal in Miami (Miami Open) on the 31st of March 2023.

In the video below, you can watch the highlights.

Now the world no.5, Stefanos played his last match on the 14th of April when he surrendered to world no.10 Taylor Fritz 6-2 6-4 in the quarter in Carlo Rolex Masters (draw).

Currently, during this season Stefanos has a 16-5 win-loss record. Stefanos Tsitsipas’s best result of this year was reaching the final at the Australian Open.