SIMS Software is the leading provider of industrial security information management software to some of the world’s most renowned government agencies, defense contractors, high technology giants, academic institutions, and research facilities.

For almost 40 years, the flagship product, Security Information Management System (SIMS), has been the most trusted solution on the market to protect classified and high-value information.

As the role of a security professional continues to transform with increased responsibilities, evolving compliance requirements, and multifaceted, aggressive threats towards their organization, having a complete solution has never been more imperative.

provides security professionals with powerful management-level metrics and a 360° view of their organization at their fingertips: reducing data calls, allowing for tracking of assets specific to the organizational requirements, and providing on-demand trend analysis for early detection and insider threat prevention.

Purpose-built, SIMS provides all the features and functionality necessary to run a powerful, paperless industrial security program with a single system of record, and includes 17 fully integrated modules for a fully automated 360° view of every physical, virtual and human asset inside your security domain.

manages visitors, classified contracts, information tracking, and control as well as personnel security clearance monitoring at all levels, and supports all National Industrial Security Operating Manual (NISPOM), Special Access Programs (SAP), and Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) requirements.

SIMS is a robust solution that supports the development costs and interoperability issues associated with in-house developed solutions, which are often more expensive and require in-demand IT resources, and has been designed to meet the hosting needs of all sizes and types of organizations offering both on-prem and cloud hosting options.

Focused on evolving customer needs and government regulations, SIMS Software combines proven performance, consistent innovation, and unmatched customer service to deliver a uniquely powerful security information management system. By equipping security stakeholders with the tools to protect the lifeblood of their organizations, SIMS Software is proud to play a vital role in advancing the interests of our nation and its allies at home and abroad.

SIMS provides all the features and functionality necessary to run a powerful, paperless industrial security program with a single system of record, so clients can escape the development costs and interoperability issues associated with in-house solutions.

The proliferation of insider threats is a complex and persistent challenge for all national security stakeholders. From the surge in super-malicious personas to simple carelessness on the job, insider threats are pervasive and elusive and are increasing at an alarming rate.

As the leader of industrial security information management for almost four decades, SIMS Software has elevated insider threat detection into a science, providing a fully automated 360° view of every physical, virtual, and human asset inside a security domain.

Customers are provided with the technology tools necessary to see the risk landscape, so they can detect, deter, and mitigate insider threats, stay compliant with government requirements, and protect their high-value information and assets.

Companies often operate in siloed cultures and practices across their organization which may interfere with information sharing, however, SIMS helps to break down those silos to harmonize data and see the patterns for a unique system-of-record for any compliance program where security operations, cyber security, and other functional areas such as HR and Risk Management can work together, share information and track insider threat cases.

SIMS includes an Insider Threat Utility that empowers organizations to establish proprietary threat models based on their existing data and the risk indicators that matter most to each unique organization, so security professionals can view key metrics across the enterprise, track and catalog cases, view what was reported, investigated, and adjudicated to help the enterprise reduce risk and spot trends.

From negligent or disgruntled employees to hostile nation-state actors, the costs and consequences of insider threats can be staggering. SIMS Software offers a strategic opportunity to deliver a genuine ROI for businesses, and saves organizations costly expenses by providing security stakeholders the opportunity to deter and mitigate, protect the company brand reputation, and retain customer trust.

Focused on evolving customer needs and government regulations, SIMS Software combines proven performance, constant innovation, and unmatched customer service to deliver a uniquely powerful security information management system.

SIMS supports all National Industrial Security Operating Manual (NISPOM), Special Access Programs (SAP), and Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) requirements, and equips security stakeholders with the tools to protect the lifeblood of their organizations, speed detection, improve accuracy and stay ahead of the threat.

Sponsor for their Third Consecutive Year and was Recognized as an ASTORS’ Awards Champion in the 2021 ‘

* Reported by more than one notable outlet