Skip to main content

What are you looking for?

Geneva Call is a neutral and impartial non-governmental organisation dedicated to promoting respect for international humanitarian norms in armed conflict and other situations of violence. Geneva Call’s mission is to ensure that armed groups and de facto authorities respect International Humanitarian Law and basic humanitarian principles in the areas where they fight or they control.

Geneva Call consists of many diverse nationalities, cultures, languages and opinions. Geneva Call is an inclusive working environment for all its staff. Applications are particularly encouraged from all qualified candidates without distinction on the grounds of race, colour, sex, national origin, age, religion, disability, sexual orientation, and gender identity.

The Head of Support is responsible for ensuring the efficient management of support services for the mission, including Logistics, Finance, HR, Administration, IT and Security.

In coordination with the Admin/ Finance Officer:

Support in the development of annual country and project budgets, and donor financial reports.

Identify and report on financial trends, working collaboratively with the CD to produce options/scenarios/corrective action plans that ensure ongoing financial stability for the Country Programme.

Oversee all financial accounting matters, including maintenance of the general ledger, balance sheet, receipts, payments and payroll requirements.

Oversee the cash flow requirements of the programme, liaising with Geneva Call HQ to facilitate cash transfers.

Manage the effects of exchange rate fluctuations between local and contract currencies, highlighting upcoming issues early and identifying mitigating strategies.

Oversee the financial management of partner delivery contracts.

Manage and review the monthly accounts closing process for the programme, ensuring HQ deadlines are met.

In coordination with the Admin/finance Officer:

Oversee HR Management to ensure a strategic approach to HR issues, promoting good management practices, and strengthening HR capacity throughout the programme.

Develop management capacity and understanding of HR and people management issues to ensure sustainable HR frameworks, improve employee relations and enhance job performance and productivity.

Manage and review the monthly leave tracking and payroll reporting cycle for national staff to ensure that any issues are flagged and followed up on a timely basis, and payroll deadlines are met.

In coordination with the admin/finance Officer:

Ensure that all procurement and logistics activities are carried out in line with policies and procedures, donor requirements and INGO best practices, maintaining appropriate controls and accountability, and ensuring the best value for GC.

Provide technical logistics and procurement expertise to the programme senior management to guide the development of budgets, proposals and operational plans, ensuring that new projects are appropriately resourced.

Develop and update programme procurement plans to ensure timely procurement and a smooth supply chain to enable the efficient running of operations.

Oversee the selection and appointment of suppliers in line with procurement procedures, conducting local market surveys, competitive tendering processes and the development of fit-for-purpose supply agreements.

Assess needs and recommend software and IT solutions and support the resolution of IT issues that arise.

Develop and manage a team of resources in HR, Fin, Security and Log departments ensuring efficient support to the Mission.

Work within the framework of Geneva Call’s core values, promoting its ethos and mission statement.

Ensure familiarity with and adhere to all Geneva Call policies and procedures.

Undertake the role in a manner appropriate to the cultural context and within the local legal framework.

Understand and uphold the standards outlined in Geneva Call’s Safeguarding Framework, acting with due care and attention to safeguard the wellbeing of anyone that comes into contact with Geneva Call’s work and reporting concerns if they do arise.

Experience in developing, implementing and using logistics and administrative systems and procedures.

Experience in overseeing complex financial planning, monitoring, forecasting and reporting.

Skills in researching, tracking and analysing issues and trends.

Ability to take frequent travels to the field base.

Fluency in English and French (written and oral) required.

The ability to remain calm, focused, organised and results-oriented under pressure and with rapidly changing circumstances.

The employee will be accountable for the responsibilities and the competencies, in accordance with the GC Performance Management p. The following documents will be used for performance reviews:

Any candidate affiliated to, or openly supporting, one or more interest groups opposed to the Foundation’s principles and values, or whose previous position could engender safety issues for co-workers at Appel de Genève / Geneva Call, will be excluded from this selection process.

To apply please follow the link:

No later than May 1st, 2023.

All applications will be kept confidential. Please note that only shortlisted candidate will be contacted for further process.

Daily Press Briefing by the Office of the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General, 18 April 2023