EDS 2023 brings manufacturers, representatives and distributers together in one place to interact with decision-makers and build new business relationships

A refreshed EDS 2023 will combine insightful programming and new ways to connect with potential channel partners, build brands and stay ahead of the curve. With decades long legacy, EDS is a unique conference and event business, functioning as a high-level meeting-based event and vibrant marketplace of ideas.

Across four days, EDS brings together industry experts and decision-makers from the world’s leading manufacturers, sales representatives and distributors to share insights, focus resources, make plans and build new business. At the heart of EDS is an idea exchange comprising strategic meetings, planned events and informal gatherings.

EDS is a combined effort, supported by the member organizations Electronic Components Industry Association (ECIA) and Electronics Representatives Association International (ERA).

In today’s global business environments, collaboration is the ‘glue’ holding supply chains together. EDS fosters collaboration: robust, person-to-person business relationships based on mutually aligned goals because conversation and conference lead to commerce.

The SPARK Professional Development Program introduces talented people to EDS and gives them new competencies to grow their careers. This year, SPARK 1.0 sessions will be held on-line weekly from 22 March through 20 April. Learn more at www.edsspark.com.

Preparation is everything at EDS. To make effective use of time, the organizers recommend contacting people you want to see well in advance, because schedules fill up quickly. Every meeting is an opportunity to build your company’s brand, so be purposeful, deliver a clear message and always follow up. Planning resources can be found at www.edssummit.com.

The Connections Café is located in the Grand Ballroom, where delegates can network, enjoy a light meal and recharge. This year, the Café features a redesigned layout to facilitate informal meetings and a ‘matchmaking’ service to connect delegates with other attendees.

The All-Industry Reception takes place on Tuesday 16 May, providing an energetic start to the week ahead. Network and reconnect in a casual setting. Enjoy refreshments and music. Participate in the EDS raffle to win cutting-edge electronics.