Taipei, April 19 (CNA) Yageo Corp., the world's third largest multi-layer ceramic capacitor (MLCC) supplier, has decided to invest 205 million euros (US$225 million) or about NT$6.8 billion in the Republic of North Macedonia over the next 10 years.

In a statement released Tuesday, Yageo said it has signed an agreement with North Macedonia to build new plants in technological industrial development zones (TIDZ) in the capital city Skopje and eastern city Stip, as part of the firm's efforts to expand globally.

The agreement was signed by the management of Yageo and Jovan Despotovski, head of the TIDZ on Tuesday. At the signing ceremony at Yageo's headquarters in Taipei, the Prime Minister of North Macedonia Dimitar Kovacevsk attended through a video ink and welcomed the Taiwanese company to the country.

According to Yageo, it will be the largest greenfield investment project in North Macedonia since the country's independence in 1991 and is expected to create about 3,900 job openings.

"I would like to express my sincere welcome and respect to Yageo, a global high-tech company, to have such meaningful investment in North Macedonia," Kovacevsk said in the video. "It's confirmation of the good economic policies that we are leading and the stable investment climate that we are creating in the country."

In response, Yageo Chairman Pierre Chen (陳泰銘) said the company has built a long term partnership with North Macedonia as its 100 percent owned subsidiary Kemet Corp. in the United States, acquired by the Taiwanese supplier for US$1.64 billion in 2020, already operates two plants and one research and development center there, mainly rolling out capacitors for electric vehicle use.

"With a strategic geographical position, stable monetary and favorable tax environment, and highly qualified workforce with competitive labor costs, North Macedonia is an ideal location for Yageo Group to continue to expand its business scale in Europe," Chen said.

A greenfield investment refers to a form of foreign direct investment (FDI) in which a parent company establishes a subsidiary in a foreign country, and specifically speaking, greenfield FDI is when companies set up or expand their business operations abroad, creating brand new jobs and facilities from the ground up as opposed to through mergers and acquisitions, which occur when one company buys another.

Greenfield FDI is a form of market entry commonly used when a company wants to achieve the highest degree of control over its foreign activities.

In recent years, Yageo has sought growth through acquisitions, with the focus on high-end passive component development.

Among the previous acquisitions before the buy-in of Kemet, Yageo bought another U. S. company, Pulse Electronics Corp., for NT$22 billion (US$721 million) in 2018, cementing its MLCC status.

In October 2022, Yageo announced plans to acquire French-based Schneider Electric's Telemecanique Sensors for an all-cash acquisition of 686 million euros according to the company, to help strengthen its specialty electronics component business.