On September 21, 2022,the Company announced that its wholly owned subsidiary, SusGlobal Energy Belleville Ltd., generated its first Verified Emission Reductions and Removals (“VERRs“) and sold its first carbon credits as part of the Anew™ SusGlobal Belleville Composting Offset Project in Ontario (the “Project“). The Project generated approximately 105,000 VERRS (generated from 2017 through 2021) with an approximate market value of between US$3.76 (CA$5.00) and US$7.52 (CA$10.00) per VERR. The Project report was submitted to the GHG CleanProjects® Registry, a business unit of the Standards Division of the Canadian Standards Association (“CSA“). The Project is part of the Offset Development and Marketing Agreement with Anew Canada ULC (“Anew Canada“) for developed and marketed greenhouse gas (“GHG“) offset credits from the Company’s 49-acre Organic & Non-Hazardous Waste Processing & Composting Facility in Belleville, Ontario.    On November 16, 2022, the Company announced that it signed an Endorsement Agreement (the “Agreement“) with world renowned professional golfer Ernie Els (the “Player“). The multi-year Agreement provides rights to utilize the Player’s name and likeness, as well as endorsement in the form of advertisements, promotions, and sales of the SUSGLOBAL® brands. SUSGLOBAL® aims to be the premier organic fertilizer and aquaculture brand to the global Golf industry by providing environmentally friendly forms of both dry and liquid fertilizers, soil amendments and microbial water solutions products (the “Products“). The Products are manufactured by proprietary processes that align with the global climate change initiative and are recognized as premier environmentally friendly solutions positioning the Company as Leaders In The Circular Economy®. Not only is Els serving as Global Brand Ambassador for SUSGLOBAL® by promoting its Products to his colleagues, fans, friends and media followers, he and his team will also act as a liaison to introduce the many golf courses throughout the world to the revolutionary SUSGLOBAL® brand. In the $200 billion fertilizer market, revenues from the approximately 30,000 golf courses, country clubs and other golf facilities in the US are projected to reach nearly $25 billion by 2024. Sustainable and environmentally friendly fertilizer solutions are going to be a key growth factor for the Company as the world looks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and slow climate change.    On February 22, 2023, the Company announced the appointment of Bruce Rintoul to the Company’s Board of Directors (the “Board“). Rintoul also serves on the Board’s Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and the Compensation Committee. Previously, Rintoul served as Senior Vice President of Operations at Veolia North America and previously held senior executive positions with environmental and industrial corporations such as Philip Services Corporation, The Churchill Corporation, RSC Equipment Rental, CEDA International Corporation, and Strike Energy Services. Rintoul also previously served on the Board of Directors for CEDA International Corporation in addition to his CEO and President responsibilities. As Senior VP of Operations at Veolia, he led the transformation of U. S. and Canadian energy generation, water/wastewater management, hazardous waste, and environmental service businesses through structural changes, business process improvements, and data management system implementations. The resulting operational and financial performance improvement subsequently facilitated the divestment of several Veolia businesses in North America.    On April 3, 2023, the Company announced that, on March 28, 2023, the Company entered into an escrow agreement, dated March 28, 2023, (the “Escrow Agreement“) with a third-party escrow agent (the “Escrow Agent“) to facilitate the discharge in full of its indebtedness to Alterna Savings and Credit Union Limited (“Alterna“). As previously disclosed, Pace Savings & Credit Union Limited had lent money to the Company and its subsidiaries (collectively, with the Company, referred to as the “Borrowers“). As of March 28, 2023, the Borrowers owed Alterna, as assignee of that debt, $3,812,765 (CAD$5,195,274), including accrued interest of approximately $387,000 (CAD$527,000). Pursuant to the Escrow Agreement, the Company deposited into escrow $917,364 (CAD$1,250,000) and signed counterparts of a mutual release agreement and indemnity agreement. On release to Alterna of the letter of credit No. 78 dated May 20, 2020, in the sum of $203,163.53 (CAD$276,830.63) the escrow will be released. Alterna has deposited into escrow an authorization empowering the Company to discharge all security and registrations relating to the debt on its behalf, such that Alterna will no longer have any registered security interests in relation to the Company. When the escrowed property is released, the Company will no longer have any indebtedness to Alterna (or Pace).