Freddie Freeman put up MVP-caliber numbers in his first season with the Los Angeles Dodgers and initially got off to a fast start this year, but has since cooled off.

The six-time All-Star is batting just .120/.214/.120 with six strikeouts and no extra-base hits in his last six games heading into the series opener against the New York Mets. “I do the same thing every day. I can’t control the results,” Freeman said after the Dodgers lost to the Chicago Cubs on Sunday.

“I’ll do the same thing tomorrow and hopefully it turns. I’m not going to chase anything. Still around 300, even though it’s not the 300 I want right now. But I will come in here tomorrow and do the same routine and hope for better results.”

Freeman’s struggles come at a time in which the Dodgers lineup as a whole has found inconsistent results. The club has scored two runs or fewer in four of its last five games, with the only exception being a 10-run outburst against the San Francisco Giants on April 12.

“I mean, you can say that for the last couple days,” Freeman answered when asked if the Dodgers lineup has been consistently inconsistent this season. “I mean, a few days ago we scored, what 10? So it’s just been kind of all over the place the first 15 days. So hopefully we can get more consistent here shortly.”

Despite his recent rough patch, Freeman continues to be among the Dodgers’ leaders in several categories. He’s hitting an overall .302/.397/.413 with four doubles, one home run, three RBI and 10 walks in 73 plate appearances in 16 games.

Freeman went 1-for-5 with four strikeouts in the Dodgers’ 3-2 loss to the Cubs in the series finale and felt home-plate umpire Sean Barber’s strike zone was inconsistent.

“It’s hard to tell from inside of the dugout,” Freeman said after the game. “But obviously, Jason thought his was a ball. My wife just told me mine was too. So it is what it is. I had a pitch to hit on 0-1 and didn’t hit it.”

Have you subscribed to the Dodger Blue YouTube channel? Be sure to ring the notification bell to watch player interviews, participate in shows and giveaways, and stay up to date on all Dodgers news and rumors!