Muskoka Algonquin Healthcare (MAHC) is hoping to have shovels in the ground ready to build a new hospital with two sites—one in Bracebridge and one in Huntsville—by 2029, heard those who attended a meeting in Dwight on Monday evening held by MAHC to update community members on its capital redevelopment project.

“We’re not just building a hospital, we’re helping to build a healthcare system,” said MAHC CEO Cheryl Harrison.

She told those present that the project had reached a significant milestone since community information sessions were held last January. Ontario’s latest market update includes the MAHC project timeline at a cost for design and construction from $500 million to $1 billion. “This is really important because it gives us our schedule with dates and we’re looking forward to having shovels in the ground in 2029,” she noted. “With this comfort that we are formally on the Minstry’s list, we’re taking a little bit more time to complete stage 1.3… We want to make sure that when the proposal goes again it’s got everything that needs to be in there so we don’t have to do very much back and forth with the Ministry so instead of submitting it in September, we’re going to wait until January. We wanted to do September because we wanted to make sure we’ve got dates but we’ve got dates already.”

What happens if the government changes?

“We expect that the further we get into this lengthy process, the less likely for any delays. So momentum is everything and we need to keep our feet to the fire and we have no indication at this time that the current government is changing their mind on Muskoka having one hospital with two sites,” said Harrison.

Population tends to help plan the functions of the two new sites

The population in the area is expected to grow with seniors making up the biggest increases though 2032. Those 80 years of age plus are expected to grow by 65 per cent. “So no surprise that we need bigger hospitals with more in-patients beds,” said Harrison. While people between the ages of 18 and 34 will make up about 17 per cent of the population.

“So very important for us not only to build the walls for acute care but make sure that we’ve got connections with out community services so that folks can get the care that they need once they leave the hospital,” added Harrison.

She said making sure hospitals are accessible,  and that there are enough private rooms is also important.

“We want to make sure that we’re colocating services to improve efficiency, for example, having ambulatory clinics that have light services or light adjacencies that help them operate is really important instead of moving all over the place.” Harrison said being fiscally responsible with publicly funded money is important. “We want to make sure we’re right sizing these buildings and we’re not overbuilding and we also want to embrace technology,” she said.

“Working through this stage requires us to be brave and bold, they’re not easy discussions to try to figure out what our two sites need to look like,” she said, adding that she’s sat in on some of the discussions being held by clinician user groups and “they are being very innovative. They’re thinking differently and they’re pushing on courageous conversations to make sure we have the right services at the right time in the right place.”

Will the model involve one ambulatory and one chronic care site?

Harrison said while that it a model being used in other places like Mississauga, the District has decided against that model for Muskoka.

Raising the local share of the overall cost

The local share is anticipated at $225 million. The funds will be raised by the two hospital foundations, the District and its six member municipalities as well as the region of East Parry Sound region. Harrison said the plan about how the local share of the project will be financed has to be submitted with the January submission as well.

MAHC and partners will also have to figure out how to build the sites with a minimum amount of disturbance to patients and staff.

Five sites out of 20 had made the cut. The teams and consultants looking at the various options have since narrowed it down to three:

* 1975 Muskoka Beach Road, which is the preliminary preferred location

The properties that have been eliminated due to issues such as terrain, servicing, size and/or distance to Hwy. 11 are:

Next meetings are scheduled for:

April 18 at 7 p.m.: Port Carling Community Centre (2nd floor)

April 19 at 7 p.m.: Armour Ryerson Burk’s Falls Arena Hall

April 20 at 7 p.m.: Active Living Centre (1st floor), Huntsville

April 22 at 10 a.m.: Terry Fox Auditorium, Gravenhurst Centennial Centre

April 22 at 2 p.m.: Bracebridge Rotary Centre for Youth

Virtual information sessions are scheduled on Monday, April 24 at 7 p.m. and on Wednesday, April 26 at 10:30 a.m. More information and registration for the Zoom link to attend a virtual information session is available at www.mahc.ca/infosessions.

Sign up here to receive our email digest with links to our most recent stories.

Local news in your inbox three times per week!