https://i2-prod.mirror.co.uk/incoming/article29749975.ece/ALTERNATES/s615/0_Main.jpg

Helen Flanagan has shared a candid video on Instagram, admitting she “doesn’t know what’s wrong with her”.

The mum-of-three, 32, will soon be on our screens in  I’m A Celebrity… South Africa, but today posted a photo of herself with her head in her hands.

She captioned the black and white shot of her sitting in her car: “Broke down in my car last night with Charlie, so annoying.”

Helen then shared a video in which she sports a green hoodie, holding the adorable two-year-old, saying: “I don’t know what’s wrong with me.

“I broke down yesterday because I had a flat tyre. Then I woke up this morning… I don’t know what’s wrong with me. I totally forgot, I was thinking ‘let’s go to nursery’ and I was going to see my friend.

“But then I was like ‘Helen, how could you forget? You broke down yesterday’, so we’re just waiting for a taxi.”

Helen reportedly split from her children’s father, Scott Sinclair, last year. However the Coronation Street actress sparked rumours the pair were back together when she flashed her engagement ring in Dubai in February.

Neither she nor Scott have commented on the rumours, but Helen did say on Instagram today: “I’m really bad at being on my own. I constantly have to have my friends with me or be with me kids. I just can’t sit there with me and my own thoughts.”

Helen was hopefully able to take her mind off things when she filmed I’m A Celebrity… South Africa last year.

The actress returned to the show 10 years after making her debut in Australia, but said this time her experience will be different.

She claimed: “It’s going to be different. I was only 22 back then and I am 32 now. I have grown up a lot and I’ve had three children and I’ve gone through three labours! I won’t not finish the trials because my mindset will be very different this time around.

“When I went in the jungle the first time, I didn’t prepare at all. I didn’t have a clue what I had let myself in for and I cried even when my phone got taken off me after landing in Australia. I want to make my children proud when I take part this time.

“I am determined to try harder in the trials.“

Helen continued: “I am not saying I am going to go in and be a jungle warrior and be absolutely amazing because I will not. Yes I will be scared but I will have a go and I will be a lot better than last time.”