The BCCI’s selection of Rohit Sharma as the Indian cricket team’s ODI captain in late 2021 created controversy, with some fans speculating rift between Sharma and Virat Kohli.

According to reports, Kohli was expected to continue leading the squad in Test and ODI cricket despite his decision to resign as T20 captain owing to workload. Yet before the South Africa tour, the BCCI decided to give Sharma the ODI captaincy.

The shocking announcement was made at a time when Kohli is among the most successful Indian captains in the one-day international format of the game, having surpassed more successful players like MS Dhoni, Mohammad Azharuddin, and Sourav Ganguly with a victory rate of more than 70%.

Well, this wasn’t the first time Virat Kohli and Rohit Sharma have made headlines. In past as well, both athletes were engaged in heartwarming on-camera interactions and dismissed rivalry rumors.

As IPL 2023 is going on, Ritika and Virat Kohli’s history is being brought up. While the current season of the Indian Premier League is going with lots of drama, some nasty trolls have brought attention to a movie date that Virat and Ritika had ten years ago. Just because Ritika Sajdeh is now the wife of Rohit Sharma, her images with Virat (alleged to be Rohit Sharma’s rival) have gone viral on the internet.

Like a decade ago, during a break from his busy cricket schedule, Indian cricketer Virat Kohli was spotted on a movie date with an unidentified girl in Mumbai. The paparazzi quickly surrounded the duo, but Virat seemed unfazed by the attention. However, the girl, who was a sports talent manager at the time, covered her face to avoid being photographed.

The media soon got hold of the photos, which were published in a leading daily newspaper. Moreover, Ritika Sajdeh’s identity has also been revealed. Reports suggest that Virat and Ritika first met during an IPL match in 2010, where Ritika was working as a talent manager for Cornerstone, the company representing Virat at the time.

Interestingly, Ritika later went on to work for Rohit Sharma, the captain of the Mumbai Indians team and eventually fell in love with him. The couple tied the knot on December 13, 2015, after a long relationship.

Not only this, but Virat Kohli also congratulated the couple on their wedding and tagged them as the “sweetest couple.” After three years of happy married life, Rohit and Ritika were blessed with a baby girl named Samaira.

Meanwhile, on the other hand, Virat Kohli married renowned actress Anushka Sharma in 2017, and the couple is also blessed with a daughter named Vamika.