Culture is an institution older than humans. Since time immemorial, before the advent of the most primitive forms of intelligent life, there have been hierarchies, systems, and orders to groups of species. Take the example of any school of fish for that matter. Fishes as a life form preceed the land mammals by billions of years. They were one of the first life forms to take birth at our planet. Fishes have hierarchies within them that control where they live, how they interact with each other, who they listen to, who they mate with, and who they prey on. It is culture, in its fetal form.

When mammals started inhavibiying earth they developed their own set of rules and ordinations by which they lived. Humans came eons after that. Which negates the notion that culture is a human invention? Animals use rules and orderly systems of interaction to guide their needs of survival and reproduction, the two basic evolutionary functions. Humans on the other hand, have evolved not only physically, but also socially, forming new dimensions, putting on new layers, and broadening the scope of what encompasses ‘culture’. Today, culture can be broadly defined as “the way of living” of a society. It encompasses everything from their beliefs, stories, myths, arts, behaviors, eating and mating practices, values, and morals and so on.

Today, we have various cultures across the world that guide not just our evolutionary functions but our day to day matters, our work, relationships, academia, dietary habits, and even shape our psychology. All these myriad of cultures evolved from the same roots. Some fell closer to the roots, and others branched off into entirely different directions. So the framework or the skeleton and essence of all cultures is more or less the same, but the flesh and blood that covers that skeleton is different everywhere.

Let’s take an example of our own nation and its various sub cultures to further elaborate this concept of all cultures sharing similarities despite being unique.

Pakistan is a country rich in cultural heritage. Be it arts, language, or any other aspect of culture, you can see numerous forms of it blooming all across the land, each unique in its manifestations, but sharing the common roots. Various cultures and ethnicities that preside in Pakistan are the Punjabi, Balochi, Pakhtun, Sindhi, Kashmiri, Mahajir, Afghan, Kalashi, Potohari and so on. This is the division on the basis of provinces, or places. If we talk about divisions based on castes there can be several more branches like the Rajputs, Arain, Khokhars, Jutts and Butts etc. Similarly, there will be several more branches if we divide them on the basis of religious sects or religions in general. So pakistan is a canvas of so many different cultures that it’s almost impossible to walk even one street in your neighborhood and not find anyone who follows a culture that is slightly different than yours.

All these cultures bring uniqueness to the table that we call the collective heritage of Pakistan. The Punjab, perhaps the most densely populated province is home to people who speak punjabi, are accustomed to hot weathers and working under sun for long hours, eat spicy food filled with flavors and fragrances, consume lassi and milk tea, and do agriculture to grow their own crops. Punjabis are sturdy, lively people at heart. They share a love of poetry, dance, and music. Their folklore tells about love, and sacrifice, and their sports are rough like hockey and kabaddi.

Sindh, the largest of the provices is home to another one of the rich languages of Pakistan, the Sindhi language. They compose beautiful songs and ballads, and are known for their tasty foods and beautiful handmade clothing items (take Sindhi ajrak for example). Likewise, the Pakhtuns, inhabiting the far north of Pakistan, are a people rich in language and hospitality. They are accustomed to extremely cold weathers, unlike Punjabis and Sindhis, owing to their fair and reddish complexions. They drink qahwa instead of milk tea, and eat lambs and similar varieties of roast meat. The women of Pakhtuns cover themselves in large chaddars and clothes to cover themselves. Pakhtun are a people highly conscious of values like honor, pride, and bravery. Other unique aspects of subcultures include the unique rituals and practices of the qabaili people, like the Kalash, the yearly religious. mourning rituals of Shias, and the sufic celebrations of various other sects.

Despite these differences, the subcultures of Pakistan don’t fall too far from their roots, which means they have a lot of commonalities lying underneath their beliefs and practices. All our cultures share a love for literary arts, and language. Poetry, one of the most magical ways of communicating what’s at heart, is embedded in all our cultures, in all languages, and in all genres; the Sindhi love ballads, the Punjabi poetry about spiritualty and sufism, the Pakhtun tales of unriveled bravery and shivalry, and the romantic sonnets of Kashmiris. Storytelling and folklore is common to all subcultures. Furthermore, qualities like hospitality, patriotism, and spiritualty are also deeply embedded in every one of the subcultures. We are also united by our love of food. We are a nation rich in flavours, wherever you go. Although almost every sport is played in Pakistan, we are uniquely united as a culture in our love for cricket. Another similary shared by all subcultures is the patriarchal nature of order in families. Men are responsible for all the financial needs of the family, and are also a decision making authority. Women on the other hand are concerned with child rearing and order at the house. We are a culture that beliefs in strongly cohesive family systems and bondings between relatives. Many people live in extended family systems, comprising of grandparents, uncles, aunts, and cousins. Marriages among cousins to further knit the family ties strongly are another common aspect of our collective culture.

Commonality can be found in even our dislikes. We all share a mutual resentment towards our neighboring country, the one we consider our arch enemy. One only needs to witness the way all Pakistanis come together against India during something so trivial as a cricket match to prove this point (calling a cricket match ‘trivial’ is an example of cultural insensitivity in this case, as cricket, by all means, is anything but trivial in our culture). So in the end, it is our culture that taught us who to like, and who to dislike, as it shaped our loyalties over decades.

Culture shapes the human experience, and each culture uniquely does so in various different ways. The goal of each culture is the same, to civilize humans, but the ways to reach that goal are endless. Pakistan is home to dozens of different cultures, all stemming from the same roots of the subcontinent. These cultures are unique in their practices, but similar in their values at the same time, staying close to the roots that shaped them for decades.