We've detected you are on Internet Explorer. For the best Barrons.com experience, please update to a modern browser.

We've detected you are on Internet Explorer. For the best Barrons.com experience, please update to a modern browser.

This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. To order presentation-ready copies for distribution to your colleagues, clients or customers visit http://www.djreprints.com.

President Joe Biden on Monday will host three Democratic state lawmakers from Tennessee who were at the center of a national political storm over their protest in the Republican-controlled chamber against lack of gun laws. White House Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre said that the three state representatives -- Justin Jones, Justin Pearson and Gloria Johnson -- will visit "this coming Monday."

She noted that Biden had previously spoken with them by phone and "thanked them for their leadership in seeking to ban assault weapons and standing up for the democratic values." Biden spotlighted the "undemocratic and unprecedented attacks on them in the Tennessee state house" and he "looks forward to continuing that discussion," Jean-Pierre said. The trio, dubbed the "Tennessee three," are at the center of the politically explosive national debate on what to do about the ever-growing number of mass shootings. They sparked fury among Republicans by joining a gun control protest disrupting their assembly's session in the wake of a mass shooting at an elementary school in the Tennessee city of Nashville. Republicans controlling the state legislature voted to expel Jones and Pearson, who are Black. A vote to expel Johnson, who is white, narrowly failed, prompting Democrats' accusations of racism. Both Jones and Pearson were later readmitted to the legislature, but the episode got nationwide attention. Biden frequently speaks out on gun violence and repeatedly advocates for a ban on the assault-weapon style rifles often used in mass shootings. Republicans across the country ferociously oppose new restrictions of any kind on firearms, painting the issue as a matter of constitutional rights for Americans to be armed.

The Barron's news department was not involved in the creation of the content above. This story was produced by AFP. For more information go to AFP.com.

© Agence France-Presse

President Joe Biden on Monday will host three Democratic state lawmakers from Tennessee who were at the center of a national political storm over their protest in the Republican-controlled chamber against lack of gun laws.

An error has occurred, please try again later.

This article has been sent to