The 41-year-old has successfully trademarked the phrase after she lost her High Court libel case against Coleen Rooney last year.

Hours after the news was revealed, the I’m A Celebrity alum took to Instagram to share a photo with three of her children alongside a smiling heart emoji.

The TV star shares nine-year-old Sofia, Finlay, six, and Olivia, two, with her husband footballer Jamie Vardy while she is also mother to Megan, 17, and Taylor, 13, from previous relationships.

She is also a step-mum to Ella, the sports star’s 11-year-old daughter from a previous relationship with Emma Daggett.

Last year, the two WAGs went head to head in the High Court after Rooney accused Vardy’s Instagram account of leaking private stories in 2019, an accusation she vehemently denied.

However, Vardy lost the high-profile libel battle against the wife of Wayne Rooney.

Following the ruling, it was reported that Vardy applied for a trademark license for the phrase “Wagatha Christie”, eight months ago under the company, London Limited Inc Ltd.

The trademark would mean that anybody wishing to use the phrase on a commercial basis would have to get Vardy’s approval, while she would also be able to charge a fee for its usage.

In documents obtained by the Mirror, her trademark covers everything from clothing, non-alcoholic beverages, broadcasting, education and beauty.

Speaking to The Sun about the trademark, a source said: “This trademark is Becky’s two fingers to Coleen and all the misery associated with ‘Wagatha Christie’, Becky is shrewd and knew people would try to cash in on the phrase.”

Last year, Vardy said she felt “let down by the legal system” after losing her libel battle, which reportedly left her with legal costs of in the region of £3 million.

In her interview with TalkTV, Vardy said earnestly: “I feel let down by a lot of people, a lot of things, but most importantly I feel let down by the legal system.”

She also said: “I am extremely sad and disappointed at the decision that the judge has reached.

“It is not the result that I had expected, nor believe was just. I brought this action to vindicate my reputation and am devastated by the judge’s finding.”