Recently the team from Ravishing Fashionistas held a casting call for their 2023 Fashion Show. This year the team are expanding their offerings to a full Fashion Week and will be busier than ever. Diverse models of all ages, stages and ethnicities met with the Concept Creator and Director – Upma Kite( Mrs Australia 2019) and a team of judges for a chance to walk in the show which will this year be held in Queen Street Mall. Judges included Francesca Webster, Rebecca Pask Mercy and Simone Hickey.

Kelly Kingston donated her time to conduct the model interviews. Some great talent from all over Queensland was discovered, with experienced models lining up with a range of emerging talent, for a chance to win a coveted spot in this prestigious and inclusive fashion week. The casting proved to be a very successful day with many models now looking forward to a week of fun and fabulous fashion, setting new industry standards across a number of runways and fashion events throughout the week.

Get ready to step into a world of fashion this July at RF Fashion Week 2023. Celebrating and showcasing the amazing talent of local designers who share RF’s values of empowering women and promoting positive body image. Led by the fabulous Concept Creator, Upma Kite and her team, this spectacular event promises to be a fashionistas dream come true. You’ll be surrounded by local celebrities, media, influencers and fashion enthusiasts eager to be inspired by the latest fashion concepts and creations.

Held at Brisbane’s Queen Street Mall, RF Fashion Week is the perfect opportunity to experience the world of fashion up close and personal. From highly talented established designers to emerging names in the industry, this event promotes diversity and allows women to pursue their fashion dreams, no matter their size, shape, age or ethnicity.

There are a range of packages, ranging from exclusive VIP package deals to individual tickets with champagne and canapés, allowing you to be the first to witness the new collections whilst networking with industry professionals. From high end couture to chic streetwear, they’ve got it all.

Designer Talks, held in the Queen Street Mall, will give you the opportunity to learn and network with like – minded fashionistas and industry professionals.

It will be an unforgettable evening and full week of style, glamour and fun. RF Fashion Week 2023  comes to beautiful Brisbane on July 15, 2023 in the central Queen Street Mall. Tickets are on sale now.