Government

Bryan Texas Utilities (BTU)

I Want To …

Get the latest news and events information from the City of Bryan delivered straight to your inbox.

Are you new to Bryan? Check out our New Resident Guide.

New outdoor amenities are coming to Midtown Park

On April 11, Bryan City Council approved a $5.1 million construction contract for new outdoor amenities to Legends Event Center and Midtown Lake. The funds were already included in the overall budget for Travis Bryan Midtown Park.

Have questions about becoming a lifeguard? We have the answers!

What do lifeguard shifts look like? I’m not certified, can I still apply? We’ve got answers to these questions and more.

You have likely noticed BTU crews out and about, working on power lines and other electrical equipment in our community. As we celebrate National Lineworker Appreciation Month, we hope you can join us in recognizing just how crucial these unsung heroes are in powering our daily lives.

Smoke testing to begin the week of April 4 in northeast Bryan

Some residents may see smoke emanating from northeast Bryan as field crews from the City of Bryan’s Water Services perform smoke testing on sanitary sewer lines.

The City of Bryan is in the process of updating the Flood Mitigation Plan and wants the public’s input at a kickoff meeting on Tuesday, April 4 from 5:30 – 7 p.m. at Bryan City Hall in Council Chambers.

On Friday, April 7, City of Bryan offices will be closed in observance of the Good Friday holiday and will resume normal operating hours on Monday, April 10.

Smoke testing to begin the week of March 13 in northwest Bryan

Some residents may see smoke emanating from northwest Bryan as the city’s contractor performs smoke testing on sanitary sewer lines.

Work to install a new storm sewer pipe along Copperfield Drive is still in progress, due to unforeseen conflicts with existing utilities. There is approximately 200 more feet of roadway still under construction that will remain partially open; however, motorists should use caution when traveling through the work zone.

Residents invited to comment on community needs

The City of Bryan’s Community Development Advisory Committee will host two public hearings during their regular meeting on Thursday, March 9, at 6 p.m. in the Basement Training Room of Bryan City Hall.

Home  /  Articles  /  midtown  /  Parks & Recreation  /  Travis Bryan Midtown Park News  /  New outdoor amenities are coming to Midtown Park

New outdoor amenities are coming to Midtown Park

On April 11, Bryan City Council approved a $5.1 million construction contract for new outdoor amenities to Legends Event Center and Midtown Lake. The funds were already included in the overall budget for Travis Bryan Midtown Park.

Outdoor terraced viewing area between Legends Event Center patio and volleyball courts with sail shade structures.

Three synthetic areas totaling 21,684 square feet:

Between the volleyball courts and the lake

A 24’ x 38’ boathouse foundation with a future capability to store 10-12 single kayaks and 7-10 double kayaks with a utility vehicle and trailer. Storage space will be available for other items, such as paddles, life jackets, etc. The boathouse will be constructed by BISD’s construction technology students.

A floating EZ Dock and pier with an ADA-accessible kayak/canoe launch.

A 15-foot-wide concrete drive lane from the boathouse to lake for a utility vehicle boat launch and walk-up launching of canoes, kayaks, and paddleboards.

A concrete landing and anchor point for the dock.

12-foot-wide multipurpose trail with a pedestrian bridge to connect Legends Event Center, the boardwalk and the future Schulman’s Movie Bowl Grille

All amenities are expected to be complete by summer 2024, except for the boathouse which should be completed by spring 2025.