Lincoln is poised to make a bold statement in the automotive landscape, and to do that, they are keeping the lineup of gas-powered SUVs fresh while offering new hybrid powertrains, which is found in the newly redesigned 2024 Lincoln Nautilus.

The new 2024 Lincoln Nautilus carries the nameplate that replaced the MKX name in 2019 and continues to be the two-row midsized luxury crossover offering for Lincoln. Sporting a new design language that’s expected to eventually be shared throughout other Lincoln vehicles, the new Nautilus gets some serious technology starting with a massive 48-inch media screen and the latest iteration of Ford’s BlueCruise hands-free driving system.

Powering the new 2024 Lincoln Nautilus is a choice of two powertrains starting with the standard offering, a 250 horsepower and 275 lb-ft of torque 2.0-liter turbocharged 4-cylinder engine mated to an 8-speed automatic transmission and a standard all-wheel-drive system. The other powertrain is a hybrid setup using the same 2.0-liter turbocharged 4-cylinder and a 100-kW electric motor feeding a (CVT) continuously variable transmission. The total power for the hybrid setup is 310 horsepower and power will be sent to all four wheels. Gone is the 2.7-liter V6, which the hybrid powertrain naturally takes its place.

There are a variety of wheel choices starting from 19 inches and going up to 20 inches, 21 inches, and the largest 22-inch wheels for the range-topping trim. An adaptive suspension system through a MacPherson strut setup up front and short-long-arm at the rear will help keep things in check and serve up a smooth ride with millisecond adjustments from sensors gathering vehicle dynamics.

The exterior sports a new face and larger proportions throughout. The new 2024 Nautilus is 3.3 inches longer than the outgoing model, and its wheelbase is 2 inches longer. The Nautilus also grows about an inch in its width.

Inside you’ll find the most drastic changes where the media screens dominate the cabin as it sports as much as 48-inches of screen real estate. The screen array is initially made up of two 23.6-inch screens to give you your essential driving data and entertainment information. Controlling the screens and interacting with the system, and your vehicle, is the duty of a third screen, an 11.1-inch touchscreen that’s positioned closer to the driver and front passenger.

The kicker with the large screen array is that it does not display streaming content but instead has portions used for Lincoln’s unique Rejuvenate system with visuals and lighting that work in sync with the audio system for a sensory experience. Couple the system with front massaging seats, you can pretend to have your own little virtual spa, sort of.

Rounding up the advanced tech in the new 2024 Nautilus is the latest iteration of Ford’s BlueCruise hands-free driving system, version 1.2, that now offers lane-change assist to automatically change lanes when you turn on your turn signal.

Lincoln says the new 2024 Nautilus will be in dealerships at the beginning of next year and will take your order now as they prepare to produce the new Nautilus at their Changan Hangzhou plant in China. Pricing is not announced as of yet, but we expect it to be slightly north of the outgoing model’s base price of about $46,000.