ChatGPT Renders an Opinion on the Donald

Please note that the posts on The Blogs are contributed by third parties. The opinions, facts and any media content in them are presented solely by the authors, and neither The Times of Israel nor its partners assume any responsibility for them. Please contact us in case of abuse. In case of abuse,

Report this post.

I’m one of a 100 million users. This number should double by the time you read this blog.

It makes my humble brain feel smart, like when I talk with a learned rabbi.

I love how quickly this AI program solves the mysteries of life.

I love how ChatGPT thinks, but I realize that we humans are in trouble. And that’s spelled with a capital “T”.

I ask, “Is ChatGPT  a better writer than I am?”

Are we about to enter the “Twilight Zone.”

So I decide ask my new brain, “Why does Donald Trump dislike Jews?”

There is no evidence to suggest that Donald Trump dislikes Jews. In fact, Trump has had Jewish members in his family and has been supportive of Israel throughout his presidency. However, it is true that some of Trump’s rhetoric and actions have been criticized as being insensitive or even harmful to the Jewish community.

For example, Trump faced backlash for his comments after the 2017 Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, where he stated that there were “very fine people on both sides” and failed to explicitly condemn the neo-Nazi and white supremacist groups who organized the rally. Additionally, Trump has been accused of using anti-Semitic tropes, such as suggesting that Jewish individuals are overly wealthy and influential, in his speeches and tweets.

It is important to note that accusations of anti-Semitism are serious and should not be made without credible evidence. While some of Trump’s actions and statements have been criticized, it is not accurate to say that he dislikes Jews.

And again I ask, “What’s next?”

Florida's Jewish short-story writer, speaker, film producer and retired attorney.

He has authored, "A Hebraic Obsession", "The Hanukkah Bunny" and "The Greatest Gift."

He produced an award-winning short film entitled, "The Stairs".

Movie can be viewed on my TOI blog.

Mort was a correspondent for the Fort Lauderdale Sun Sentinel Jewish Journal.

He has recently taken on the post of president of the South Florida Writers Association.

How 3,000 Years of Jewish Civilization in the Arab World Vanished Overnight

Israel to pause for daytime siren in memory of 6 million Jews killed during Holocaust

GOP senator: Window for Israel-Saudi normalization deal could close within a year

Mainstream Israeli artists make an album of new music to connect youth to Holocaust