Something went wrong, please try again later.

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Boxing fans were given a taste of Ebanie Bridges' latest OnlyFans content as the ring star posted a new Grease-inspired picture.

Giving all the allure of a transformed Sandy Olsson in the cult classic's final act, 'The Blonde Bomber' paid tribute to Olivia Newton-John's iconic character in an all-black get-up. But it wasn't necessarily the clothes that will have caught her fans' attention as Bridges' top struggled to contain her prize assets.

"Feeling powerful in everything I do! My OnlyFans is the best way to see all of me," wrote the blonde beauty, who is without an opponent after scoring an eighth-round stoppage win over Shannon O'Connell in December.

READ MORE: Ebanie Bridges reckons weigh-in with fellow OnlyFans star would 'break the internet'

The femme fatale has surged to prominence as a mix of stellar looks, superb fighting talent and business nous. Regardless of whether they're from the original 'Grease' generation, however, fans flocked to fawn over Bridges' hair-twirling post on Wednesday.

"I got chills, they're multiplying," replied one admiring fan. "And I'm losing control." And just like Danny Zuko surrendered to Sandy's whims by the end of the 1978 movie, Bridges' legion of subscribers were falling over themselves to pay the pugilist a compliment.

Which is your favourite Ebanie Bridges themed photoshoot to date? Let us know in the comments section.

"Anyone ever said you're perfect?" asked one follower. "Not just an insane athlete, loves the history of the sport, and that face!? 101/100." Others ploughed into the comments section with heart-eye and flame emojis, struggling to put coherent sentences together in their praise of the IBF bantamweight champion.

Bridges has blazed to success both in and outside of the ring, becoming a smash hit in the content subscription market after signing up to OnlyFans. She's also proved a dab hand at capitalising on pop culture to promote her material, setting tongues wagging with a recent Barbie-themed shoot in conjunction with the recent film's release.

Another recent upload celebrated the two-year anniversary of Bridges' arrival on British soil, having only fought in Britain for the first time in April 2021. Her profile has grown so much in that span that it's difficult to believe the world hasn't been aware of her talents for longer.

It remains uncertain as to whom the Aussie could match up against in her next bout, though she recently commented a showdown with fellow OnlyFans model Avril Mathie could 'break the internet'. Bridges also teased a potential rematch against Briton Shannon Courtenay, who remains the only combatant she's lost against to date.