The capital city of Sichuan Province, Chengdu, has welcomed China’s first Oaks hotel adjacent to the previously launched sister property, Tivoli Chengdu, as part of a new project in partnership with Chengdu Qingyang Urban and Rural Construction Development Company.

Adding a total of 398 rooms between them in categories ranging from deluxe rooms to suites and serviced apartments, Tivoli Chengdu at Cultural Heritage Park and Oaks Chengdu at Cultural Heritage Park occupy an area of nearly 110,000 square metres.

Situated on the south-west edge of the commercial and convention hub of Chengdu International Intangible Cultural Heritage Exhibition Park, the new development is in the western part of Chengdu, in close proximity to Nancaoping Ecology Park and the 18-hole Tianfu Golf Club.

The dual properties provide three dynamic food and beverage options, a luxury spa and fitness facilities, a children’s club and 5,388 square metres of conference and banquet space. The meeting facilities include a 2,275-square-metre grand ballroom that can accommodate up to 1,700 guests and a 3,650-square-metre lawn for outdoor weddings and themed events.

Tivoli Chengdu was the inaugural property in China for leading Portuguese hospitality brand Tivoli Hotels & Resorts, launched in late 2019 as phase one of the development.

One of Australia’s largest apartment style accommodation providers with over 60 properties in operation worldwide, Oaks Hotels and Resorts has opened Oaks Chengdu which offers 197 modern guest rooms and suites designed with families in mind. Ideal for longer stays, Oaks Chengdu’s spacious garden-facing rooms are decorated with locally-sourced handicrafts and equipped with a sleek kitchen, full connectivity and the latest in entertainment technology.

Guests staying at both hotels can enjoy all-day dining at Café 1933 offering South-East Asian specialties, cocktails, themed afternoon tea and Chinese tea tastings. New-style Sichuan and classic Cantonese cuisine is served at the signature Tihong Chinese Restaurant which also specialises in dim sum and local street food.

With seven serene treatment rooms, Anantara Spa offers a respite from life’s stresses and demands with healing Ayurveda-inspired therapies and a full suite of body and facial treatments. Other wellness facilities include a relaxation lounge, bathhouse with a Himalayan salt steam room, an 858-sqm heated indoor swimming pool with natural lighting, a whirlpool, children’s swimming pool, and wet and dry saunas.

The two properties are located 19 kilometres from Chengdu Shuangliu International Airport, with excellent transport links to key places of interest. Nearby, guests can visit the Giant Panda Breeding Research Base, indulge in high-end shopping, explore traditional tea houses and hawker stalls, or tour imperial burial sites and centuries-old temples.

As part of the opening promotion, the two properties are offering 30 per cent savings on stays until May 30.