Today, Jack Daniel’s and Coca-Cola have officially announced the launch of Jack Daniel’s and Coca-Cola ready-to-drink (RTD) in Great Britain (GB).

Made with Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Whiskey and Coca-Cola, Jack Daniel’s & Coca-Cola RTD is inspired by the classic bar cocktail known and enjoyed around the world.

Last year, Jack Daniel’s and Coca-Cola announced that they would be teaming up to provide fans with the option to enjoy the drink inspired by one of the world’s most popular branded “bar calls” – a cocktail ordered with specific brand names – in a convenient, ready-to-drink format.

The product resulting from this global agreement between the two iconic brands will hit shelves in GB, alongside other markets in Europe – before expanding to other global markets in Latin America and Asia throughout 2023. The product debuted in Mexico in November 2022.

Nikos Koumettis, President Europe OU, at The Coca-Cola Company, said: “Jack Daniel’s and Coca-Cola RTD was born ready to be a fan-favourite, boldly bringing our flavours together to form this iconic pairing. Both of our brands are inspired by our fans’ endless innovation in mixing the best, to get the best, and we can’t wait for them to give this a try.”

Marshall Farrer, EVP, Chief Strategic Growth Officer and President Europe, from Brown-Forman, the owner of Jack Daniel’s, comments: “We are thrilled that Jack Daniel’s and

Coca-Cola RTD is expanding to new markets, delivering the unique taste that was made to set the standard for bar calls around the world to our fans in Europe.”

The packaging boldly integrates iconic qualities of both brands – the red Coca-Cola logo written in its classic Spencerian script, combined with the elegant, black Jack Daniel’s Old No. 7 design – emphasising that the Jack Daniel’s and Coca-Cola RTD is born ready to be the best because of its quality ingredients. The can and packaging, which features two of the world’s most recognisable and valuable trademarks in “Coca-Cola” and “Jack Daniel’s”, will include clear responsibility messaging stating that the beverage is to be enjoyed responsibly and only by consumers of legal drinking age.

A Coca-Cola Zero Sugar version will also be available in GB.