A $4 million recruitment campaign by the Department of Corrections has yielded a net gain of 53 new prison officers after it was launched late last year.

The recruitment campaign was launched last October as part of an effort to resolve staffing shortages, with the department losing staff faster than it could hire replacements. As a result of the shortages, whānau visits in Auckland, Wellington and Waikato prisons  continue to be put on hold.

National Commissioner Leigh Marsh​ said the department had 3514 officers before the recruitment campaign began, and now had 3567 – a net gain of 53.

“We have seen a strong increase in the number of job applications received for new Corrections Officers, with over 3100 applications received since October 2022,” he said.

READ MORE:

* 'They’re breaching our human rights': Prisoners still denied family visits

* Community Corrections staff reject pay offer, not ruling out strike action

* Only one prison fully staffed as shortage of guards grows

There were 209 people training to become a prison officer and a further 58 people about to begin training. About 700 applications were being processed.

Responding to an Official Information Act request about the campaign’s cost, Corrections said it spent about $3.85m on the campaign.

Progress has been made in safely reducing the prison population, but there is more work to do. (First published September 17, 2022)

Most of the money, $2.5m, went towards placing the adverts on broadcast TV, billboards and online. The rest covered production, and development and research.

Marsh said it could take up to 77 days to process an application to become a prison officer because the selection process was “rigorous”, and the department had started to “turn a corner” on its recruitment.

“Due to the high level of integrity expected of staff working in prisons, thorough pre-employment checks must also be carried out. These include police vetting, drug testing, a physical fitness test and medical check, and a reference check prior to employment.”

The training could also take up to 14 months, including an induction week at their prison site, five weeks at the department’s Upper Hutt national learning centre, and another 12 months at the prison site.

Corrections Association president Floyd du Plessis​ said the number was “not good enough” and more effort should have gone into retaining experienced staff instead.

“We are quite concerned that the gain they're reporting is over a period where we tend to see large gains because people don’t seem to change employment between the December and February period,” he said.

“Unless the department's willing to come up with ideas on how to increase retention, and keep experienced staff in the job, we're just never going to move positively.”