I never had a daily relationship with caffeine until I got sober from alcohol and drugs in 2006 (age 24). It was always “take it or leave it,” although I recall drinking a lot of soda (Mountain Dew) growing up. Soda drinking was considered normal behavior in the 1980s and 90s.

My father drank one cup while reading the newspaper in the morning, and I was confident I wouldn’t end up that way. I met a few coffee lovers along the way, and the culture of sophistication never resonated with me.

After putting down the booze and illicit drugs, I started drinking coffee every day, and pretty quickly, it became several times per day. It was a socially acceptable thing for sober people to do, and I thoroughly enjoyed it and felt a part of a coffee-drinking sub-culture.

I was smart enough to know that adding sweeteners was not helpful to my life goals, but I have always enjoyed a splash of cream or alternative milk (which was becoming all the rage at the time).

If I’m honest about my consumption, my drink was 5 shots of espresso over ice with a splash of something creamy, and it wasn’t long until I started every morning this way. I felt good knowing I had breakfast before coffee, which many people don’t.

Side note: I don't like “fasting” at all; it’s just not for me. I’m a massive fan of breakfast and always recommend that my clients eat breakfast before their morning coffee, which is a tough sell, but can be life-changing.

A new world opened when I discovered pre-workout supplements and started lifting weights. It’s truly the ultimate rush: the dopamine from the caffeine, the testosterone from the lifting, and the fantasy from the rap music. I was addicted to exercise but saw no downsides at the time.

I progressed to two scoops of pre-workout supplements and can even recall taking them on off days, stretch days, and dancing at night. Yes, I took pre-workout supplements for sober raving, usually solo (I always had a protein bar with me and even had a way of convincing the bouncer to let me in with it).

This pattern of consumption continued for many years. I once had my own container of caffeine powder and used to concoct custom pre-workout formulas. I’ve taken many caffeine pills, especially during my Master’s program. I never really told anyone about it.

Confession: there were days when I would drink coffee in the morning, use pre-workout in the afternoon, and drink more coffee at night. I often ended the day at an 11 pm recovery meeting sipping coffee. One night I left because there was no coffee there. I got some gas station coffee on my way home to bed.

My genetic results suggest I am a fast metabolizer of caffeine. I often slept pretty well after 800+ mg of caffeine throughout the day. This matched my experience with other drugs of abuse many years prior: once your body learns the substance, the effect can evolve.

Eventually, it bothered me that I needed caffeine to exercise. I was into bodybuilding and started feeling unmotivated in the gym. It was apparent the caffeine was taking a toll, and I started taking breaks from it. I would feel tired/weak for a few days and then have ferocious energy for training.

I saw a path ahead for me: caffeine-free. I suspected I had “maxed out” and crossed the point of no return. People in recovery refer to this as addiction; clinically, this is a substance use disorder.

I have a caffeine use disorder. I’m the real deal. It’s not based on how much caffeine I have consumed but more so because quitting takes my anxiety away, and I always pick up again.

I don’t get caffeine headaches as many do. I’ve never had one. What happens for me is that I begin to obsess about the beverage and see a version of my day that is much more manageable. I can spot the Green Starbucks goddess from a mile away. And once I commit, I am seemingly unable to change my mind. Some of my lowest points were being late but needing to stand in line for a coffee where I was visibly upset and wishing everyone would move faster.

After quitting countless times, I would “give it another shot” if you know how that story goes. After periods of abstinence, it would start slowly but then progress to daily and eventually several times/day. When I tried to discuss it with my support network, no one truly understood. I even felt some eye-roll energy (some of you are rolling your eyes as you read this).

The Ph. D. program made it worse. I am sure you can imagine. It didn’t matter to me if I was in active addiction- I had things that needed to be done ASAP, and it was worth it (this is my go-to narrative). I am quick to compromise my sleep for a deadline.

In 2020 I put together 8 months of abstinence. During this time, my whole world opened up. This is when I fell in love with my now wife, Nathalie. I remember feeling like my heart was open and I was available for intimacy. My dopaminergic resources were not compromised by active addiction. I was able to elevate to new heights.

You might know how this story usually goes—always giving it another shot. Quitting and starting again. Building narratives, justifying. Having terrible anxiety and knowing that my second red-eye had something to do with it, but then doing it again the next day.

I bottomed out again recently. When I mix workaholism and caffeine addiction, the result is that I have less bandwidth to care about other people. The cycle forces me into a cave of “self” that can sometimes feel dark. It’s not something that I can think my way out of either. The caffeine does something to my brain that destabilizes me. It didn’t use to, but it does now.

I am writing this after three weeks of being separated from caffeine again! No green tea this time, but I’m good with the occasional chocolate (the caffeine content is very low). I’m starting to feel like myself again. I feel great about my willingness to continue working on myself and honoring my mental health journey.

In recovery, we share vulnerable stories, hoping they can help someone else. In describing my strange relationship with caffeine, I think about all the people with other addictions (e.g., food, gaming) who are misunderstood by society and marginalized. We still have a long way to go to understand how tricky an addiction can be for some.

1. It doesn’t matter what the addiction is. All active addictions can potentially block you from the Sunlight of the Spirit.

2. Substances affect people differently. You might not have a problem with caffeine, and I might not have a problem with your go-to substance.

3. If moderation doesn’t work for you, pursuing abstinence is OK, even if it’s not popular or socially acceptable.

4. Your lived experience is what matters. It doesn’t matter what everyone else has to say about it.

5. Being more available to everyone around you is way more valuable than whatever substance you think you need.

Learn more about the effects of caffeine on anxiety.