Well, there we go. Add another dumb-as-a-log name to the Biden dumpster fire administration. We have a SCOTUS justice who can’t define what a woman is, federal judge nominees who can’t answer simple law questions, an FAA nominee who had no idea what aviation was, a Secretary of Transportation who knows only that roads are racist, an Assistant Secretary for Health who thinks he’s a woman, the SecEd won’t define “woman”…

…and now the head of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms can’t define what the very instrument of death IS that he is so desperate to ban.

Biden says he wants to ban assault weapons, but his own ATF Director Steve Dettelbach can't even define what they are: "I'm not a firearms expert" pic.twitter.com/v50ElLnBG3

Seriously, dude. If you want to make 10s of millions of Americans felons for owning something that is a constitutional right, you should probably have some sort of parameters set before you attempt that, no?

Or at least a hazy picture in your head?

…During questioning from Republican Texas Rep. Jake Ellzey, Dettelbach said he supported a radical “assault weapon ban” similar to the policies espoused by his boss, Biden, and many other gun-grabbing Democrats, when he unsuccessfully ran for attorney general of Ohio in 2018.

Black, scary, and pew pew pew won’t cut it, dude, especially now that the GOP has the House back. Some of those representatives know a little bit about weapons, and I’m not just talking about the guys who’ve been shot by Bernie bros at ballgames. There’s Jake Ellzey, the chrome-domed congressman conducting the questioning when Dettelbach admits he’s clueless. He’s also an Annapolis grad and former F-14/F-18 Naval aviator.

As for those Democrats reviled but hard to describe exactly what they are AR-15-types? By 2020, there were estimated to be over 20 million in the hands of citizens, purchased for any number of reasons. Self-defense is a primary one.

…Lightweight and easily customizable AR-15 style weapons have skyrocketed in popularity in recent years, taking center stage at gun ranges and shooting competitions across the country. Advocates say the weapons are a symbol of freedom, and important for personal safety.

“I am smaller and less capable to handle violence, and a firearm is the great equalizer,” said Dianna Muller founder of the DC Project, which advocates for firearm education. “I go to bed comfortably and do not worry about it at all because I have an AR-15 beside my bed.”

The ATF chief and his gun-grabbing compadres would dearly love to shut those sales down stat and force you to give yours up.

Now, my natural cynicism is bubbling to the surface listening to the rest of the conversation between Dettelbach and the congressmen, particularly when the ATF chief is endorsing assault weapons bans and the discussion turns to records. It’s actually quite ominous what the ATF is doing as far as purchase records, etc go.

Here, we have ATF Director Dettelbach CONFIRMING that the ATF processes "tens of millions" of FFL records each year.

As Mr. Cline points out in the first video, prior to Biden taking office FFLs (Federal Firearms License) dealers (or the ATF if shops had gone out of business and turned over records to the government) were allowed to destroy their records after 20 years. Seems like forever, right? Who would need to keep that paperwork around longer than two decades?

Well. Biden gun grabbers, perhaps? As Rep. Cline continues…

“…but a new rule mandates that they be kept in perpetuity now. And this is a concern that ATF is taking a back door approach to creating a federal firearms registry, despite intent to the contrary…”

How many records are we talking about since just Biden took office? It’s an absolutely gobsmacking number for 2021 alone.

Biden Admin Amassing Millions of Records on US Gun Owners Amid New Crackdown on Firearms

Biden’s ATF obtained more than 54 million gun owner records in 2021 alone

The Biden administration in just the past year alone stockpiled the records of more than 54 million U. S. gun owners and is poised to drastically alter gun regulations to ensure that information on Americans who own firearms ultimately ends up in the federal government’s hands, according to internal Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms (ATF) documents obtained by the Washington Free Beacon.

The ATF in fiscal year 2021 processed 54.7 million out-of-business records, according to an internal ATF document obtained by the Gun Owners of America, a firearms advocacy group, and provided exclusively to the Free Beacon. When a licensed gun store goes out of business, its private records detailing gun transactions become ATF property and are stored at a federal site in West Virginia. This practice allows the federal government to stockpile scores of gun records and has drawn outrage from gun advocacy groups that say the government is using this information to create a national database of gun owners—which has long been prohibited under U.S. law.

No, and HAY-YULL, no, I don’t trust them.

That’s precisely how they’ll track down a good number of weapons to try confiscating if they ever got their dearest, darkest wishes. That “unsearchable” pile of papers will miraculously become searchable, believe you me.

We have to keep shining the light on both these underhand sneks AND their unconstitutional machinations, and Republicans MUST keep shutting them down.