This is the News in Brief from the United Nations.

The UN deputy chief told a major meeting at the UN on Monday, it was “essential to “stand united” against the Taliban ban on women and girls’ access to education and employment in Afghanistan.

Amina Mohammed was addressing the opening session of the Commission on Population and Development in New York.

She said the Taliban had to reverse its assault on the rights of women and girls, and asked delegates to continue supporting women’s movements and innovative solutions, to make gender equality a reality.

Ms. Mohammed stressed that “quality responsive education was a human right, and “source of personal dignity and economic empowerment”.

UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, Volker Türk, has expressed alarm at the current tense situation in Sudan, as military and civilian leaders negotiate conditions for establishing full democratic rule.

In a statement on Saturday he called for all sides to set aside their entrenched positions and personal interests, to focus on the common interests of the Sudanese people.

The UN rights chief said the country stood at a “decisive juncture”, and now is the time “to get the political transition back on the right path”.

Last December, a Political Framework Agreement was signed between civilian leaders and the military, as a first step towards the restoration of a civilian-led Government.

A final political agreement was expected to be signed on the first day of April, but was then postponed to 6 April, and differences remain over key security and military reforms.

And finally, UN rights chief Volker Türk has joined the international justice community in mourning the passing of Ben Ferencz, the last surviving prosecutor from the Nuremberg Trials.

Mr. Ferencz secured convictions against 22 Nazi death-squad commanders who were responsible for the murder of over a million Jews and others.

The High Commissioner said the legacy of the legendary prosecutor, who died on Friday aged 103, should “be a continuing inspiration for justice and peace”.

The International Criminal Court, (ICC), issued a statement mourning his passing, noting he was one of the chief advocates for its creation.

His determination and optimism inspired whole generations of lawyers, activists and diplomats to work toward “replacing the law of force with the force of law”, the Court said.