Do you know what’s better than classic cheesecake? Peanut butter cheesecake bars with a crunchy nutter butter crust, rich chocolate ganache topping, and a creamy peanut butter cheesecake layer loaded with mini Reese’s peanut butter cups.

This recipe will give you the perfect balance between creamy sweetness and salty goodness that make for some seriously delicious dessert bars.

Not only are these decadent treats easy to make but they also look great if you’re planning on sharing them with friends or family!

Plus peanut butter and chocolate?  – it is simply irresistible! So grab your ingredients and let’s get baking—you won’t regret it.

* Peanut buttery, tangy, and just the right amount of sweet.

* Just like a peanut butter cup, but in cheesecake form.

* Perfect for potlucks, parties, and just because.

* You can use Oreos for the crust instead of nutter butters for added chocolate flavour, or use graham cracker crumbs for a more traditional crust.

* Add more mix ins. Peanut butter chips, crushed Reese’s pieces, chopped peanuts, chocolate chips, or other small candies.

* Make mini cheesecakes. Line a muffin tin with cupcake liners and press 1 tablespoon crust mixture into the bottom of each cup. Fill with each cup 3/4 full with the cheesecake batter, and bake 20-25 minutes. Top each cooled mini cheesecake with ganache if desired.

* Only use smooth peanut butter for these bars, crunchy peanut butter and natural peanut butter will not work.

* Make sure your eggs, cream cheese, and sour cream are all room temperature so that they combine well for a smooth texture and even baking.

* Do not to over mix the batter after the addition of the eggs as you will only add more air to the batter, resulting in cracking.

* These are best when chilled for 2 to 3 hours before serving.

* To check for doneness, use a toothpick and check 3 to 4 spots.  Toothpick should come out clean (unless you insert it into a Reeses).

* You may wish to double the ganache icing for a thicker layer.

* For easier removal from the pan, line with parchment paper and leave a little overlapping the pan so you can get a good hold to pull them out.

Transfer cut bars into an airtight container, or cover the pan tightly with plastic wrap and store for up to 1 week in the refrigerator.

The cut bars can also be frozen for up to 3 months in an airtight container with parchment paper or wax paper between any layers to help prevent sticking.

Thaw in the fridge overnight before serving.

Baking pan – You will need a 9×9″ square pan.

Food processor – For making the cookie crumbs, you can also put the cookies in a freezer bag and use a rolling pin to crush them.

You will also need a large mixing bowl and a whisk or a stand mixer, as well as a spatula, and a microwave safe bowl.

Cookies – I used nutter butter cookies for the crust but you could use any peanut butter sandwich cookie.

Butter – Unsalted or salted butter works, I prefer using salted butter. If you do use unsalted butter you may want to add about 1/4 teaspoon of salt to the crust.

Cream cheese – Whole cream cheese is best but you can use light cream cheese if necessary.

Sour cream – Helps create a creamy texture. Use regular sour cream or premium high fat sour cream for the best results.

Peanut butter – Use your favourite peanut butter. You should avoid using natural peanut butter here.

Vanilla – Use pure vanilla extract for the best results, but you can use artificial vanilla if that is what you have on hand.

Salt – Balances out all the flavours.

Eggs – Make sure your eggs are room temperature for the best results.

Chocolate chips – For the ganache you should use semi-sweet chocolate chips but you can use bittersweet or dark chocolate instead if you prefer to tone down the sweetness.

Cream – For making the ganache you will want to use heavy cream for the best flavour. That said, milk will work just fine.

Check out more of my favourite dessert bars!

This recipe for pecan pie bars is a huge crowd pleaser. They’re deliciously sweet & salty with an easy shortbread crust. Plus NO Corn Syrup!

Soft and sweet, these Gooey Cake Batter Bars are super easy to throw together – just cake mix and a few other simple ingredients.

Rolo Rocky Road is an easy no-bake chocolate treat packed with marshmallows, graham crackers and loads of chocolate caramel Rolos.

Preheat the oven to 350° Fahrenheit. Line a 9×9 inch pan with parchment paper. Set aside.

Place the nutter butter cookies and melted butter in a food processor and pulse until there are very small crumbs.

Pour the crust into the pan and press down evenly.  You can use a flat bottomed cup to press down the crumbs.

Beat the cream cheese, sugar, sour cream, peanut butter, vanilla and salt together in a large bowl until well combined.

Beat in one egg, then beat in the second egg until just combined.

Place the pan in the oven and bake for 25 minutes or until a toothpick inserted in the top comes out clean.

Remove and cool completely in the pan.

Combine the chocolate chips, heavy cream, and butter together in a bowl and microwave on high for 1 minute.  Stir until melted and combined.  If the chocolate isn’t completely melted, heat in additional 10 second intervals until melted.  Stirring between each time.  Add a teaspoon of powdered sugar if needed to slightly thicken.

Pour over the cooled cheesecake and smooth out.

Refrigerate for at least 2 to 3 hours before slicing and serving.