A new Twilight series is in the works at Paramount.

It’s been over 10 years since The Twilight Saga movie franchise concluded its run in theaters, but it seems that there’s new territory about to be explored in the form of a TV series, according to The Hollywood Reporter. Though not much is known about the project at the present moment, we do know that Stephenie Meyer, the writer of the book series of the same name, will be involved in the development of the series. Additionally, sources say that Wyck Godfrey and Erik Feig will also be at the helm as executive producers for the Twilight series.

All five Twilight movies, owned by Lionsgate, were produced by Godfrey’s production company, Temple Hill, and distributed by Summit Entertainment (a label of Lionsgate Films, owned by Lionsgate Entertainment), so we’re already off to a promising start. But at this point in time, the Twilight reboot series has not been signed to a premium channel or streaming platform. However, considering that Lionsgate owns the rights to the Twilight properties, and acquired Starz in 2016 to expand their studio efforts, we are speculating that the new Twilight series may find a home on the network.

But we’re getting a little bit ahead of ourselves, as the Twilight series is still in the early development stages. Before the rights to the television series are shopped to a network, Lionsgate is still looking for a writer to steer the series in the right direction.

Right now, all five Twilight movies can be streamed on Paramount+ or Peacock.

Lionsgate CEO, Jon Feltheimer has also gone on record stating that there are a lot more stories to be told, and when the time is right, they will be pursued and fleshed out. And though Stephenie Meyer is involved in the project, we’re not sure how much involvement she’ll have in the writing process for the Twilight Series, or if she’ll function as producer. What we do know, however, is that as of 2020, Meyer is working on two additional Twilight novels, and plans to continue the saga on the literary front, which could potentially function as source material for the upcoming series.

We also have the Midnight Sun novel, which is a companion piece to the original Twilight novel, but told from the perspective of Edward Cullen (Robert Pattinson in the films) instead of Bella Swan (Kristen Stewart). So in regard to content, characterization, and continuity, there are a lot of different avenues that could be potentially explored in the upcoming Twilight series.

With the information we know so far, it’s safe to say that the Twilight series is certainly being set up for success. Considering the film franchise earned a total of $3.35 billion to date, we can expect similar results from the series if it’s developed with intent, and stays true to the universe that Meyer created.

And the name of the game these days is revival. Lionsgate and Starz recently rebooted Party Down, a comedy of errors about a pop-up catering company that hosts private events. And it’s no mystery that reviving existing properties that have proven to be successful in the past is a great move from a marketing perspective. So at this point in time, it only makes sense to give the highly successful Twilight Saga a similar series treatment.