Four members of Liberty Ambulance received the Stars of Life award last month in Sacramento: Paul Gilbert, Kern Valley resident Donald Wiseman, Daniel Caverhill and Roger Brown.

The California Ambulance Association has been giving the Stars of Life award since 2009 to emergency medical service professionals who go above and beyond in their field.

“These gentlemen were recognized for outstanding service to our community, commitment to training and educating stellar clinicians, dedication to their peer’s mental health and patient advocacy,” Erin Cocciolone, director of operations for Liberty Ambulance, said.

Gilbert began serving in emergency medical service eight years ago, and for Liberty Ambulance four years ago. He has served as a volunteer firefighter and EMT for the Pasadena Fire Department reserve program. He is an assistant supervisor and field training officer. He is leading the building of Liberty Ambulance's first peer support group for the mental support of personnel in the field.

Wiseman, a local resident since 1977, has worked in the valley for close to 30 years, beginning his career in 1994 with Care Ambulance. After attaining his paramedic license, he continued working for the same company until Liberty Ambulance purchased it. Wiseman once delivered a 3-pound baby at 28 weeks gestation. To this day, the little one is doing great. Wiseman continues to be a mentor to new paramedics.

Caverhill is a patient advocate who began his career as an EMT with AMR for nearly five years. He became a field training officer. He attended paramedic school and then worked for nearly 10 years as a paramedic preceptor for Hall Ambulance, where he became a field supervisor. After working for almost a year at Kern County EMS, he realized his passion was working out in the field. He has worked the past five years as a paramedic for Liberty Ambulance and is currently a field training officer.

Brown has been working diligently on revamping Liberty Ambulance's training education and orientation. He has worked for Liberty Ambulance for more than 10 years, during which he completed his paramedic internship and became a licensed paramedic. He is a paramedic preceptor and training supervisor. He has remained in leadership for 10 years.

“Each one of Liberty’s Stars brings huge value to their team," Cocciolone said. "And we are proud to have them servicing our community."