Dior went global this year at their Pre-Fall 2023 fashion show in Mumbai, India. The show shed a beautiful light on India’s contribution to the production of European high fashion. Dior is certainly paying credit where credit is due and what better way to highlight India’s role in fashion than to present the show in India itself!

Creative Director of Women’s Collection at Dior Maria Grazia, explains her excitement to showcase India’s culture in their Fall collection. “It’s about new ideas for a new generation, that it is possible to innovate a paradigm shift, and changing how we speak about craft. We want to put this dialogue at the heart of it,” said Grazia.

The show took place at Mumbai’s Gateway of India. It was the first show held at the renowned French Manion and the collection was nothing short of spectacular. The pieces were timeless and exuding with elegance and class. Colors of black, green, yellow, blue, pink and purple were the focus of this season’s collection.

Grazia placed homage on India’s techniques and their relevance to present-day fashion. “Hand-embroidery is at the heart of Indian culture, and serves as a form of identity across its many communities. Even though techniques date back centuries, they remain a relevant means of exchange even today,” said Grazia.

Grazia and director of Chanakya International and The Chanakya School of Craft, Karishma of wanted to showcase the magnificent craft of Indian artisans. The pair explains that, “One of the many crafts we collectively revived is that of the chaand jaal, meaning silver network in English — a delicate lace that features braided coiled threads interlinked to form an intricate lace-like mesh.”

Now, let’s take a look at some of VALLEY’s favorite celebrity looks of the night!

Indian actress and star of many Hindi films, Sonam Kapoor Ahuja, was styled by Dior in a lovely pearlescent pink, silk dress paired with a blazer and traditional Indian jewelry.

Indian actress and former producer, Anushka Sharma attended Dior’s event with her husband, Virat Kohli. Kohil was dressed in classic grey suit while Sharma is attired in an elegant yellow gown along with an iconic Lady Diana bag to match.

American actress, Yara Shahidi was seen at Dior’s show dressed in an ornamented jacket with brown slacks and black pumps. Her casual but effective attire was nothing but classy at Dior’s outstanding event.

British model and actress, Cara Delevingne was decked from head to toe in Dior. Dressed in a colorful coat sinched by a leather belt, Delevingne completed this radiant outfit with silver sparkled heels.

So, what is your favorite part Dior’s fashion event of the season? Let us know by tweeting @VALLEYmag on Twitter!