Tonight's solar eclipse signals a major turning point. There's an energizing, go-hard-or-go-home quality to this eclipse that calls us to take a bold step into a new phase of our life. Over the next few weeks, we can expect key news or developments that will help push us forward. This cosmic event can be the kick in the pants that we need to transform our lives, take a leap of faith or pursue a dream. Since this eclipse can agitate as much as it can motivate, we may need to take caution into consideration.

You may be ready to reinvent yourself or go further than you've been before. Reach for the stars.

Are you resisting the flow instead of going with it? It's impossible to be in control of every outcome or experience in life. Learn the art of surrender.

Your social circle may be changing in a big way, as you search for more meaningful connections. Too, you could see your popularity rise.

Big career opportunities are on the horizon, or perhaps you're due to receive a prestigious award or a moment of public recognition.

You may be ready to branch out and spread your wings. This could lead you toward new travels, the pursuit of an exciting idea or a brighter outlook.

It's time to move on from something that you've outgrown. You may need to work on overcoming a deep fear or begin healing from a painful experience from the past.

A match made in heaven may be in your near future. Maybe it's a new business partnership or a high-profile client. Maybe you're changing your relationship status to "committed."

You're looking to get a better handle on your wellness. It's an excellent time to make a lifestyle change, find a healthier work environment or develop a better work-life balance.

Fun, passion, romance -- if any of these things have been lacking in your life, they won't be for long.

Are you ready to put down roots in a new neighborhood or welcome a new family member? There's also an opportunity to heal or repair relationships with loved ones.

You may be hungry to learn, whether it's another language, a useful skill or a new area of interest. You can also be successful in launching a creative idea.

There could be more money coming in, thanks to a better paying gig or you finding the courage to ask for the dollars you deserve. Be ready to conquer feelings of unworthiness.

You're like a force of nature. You're fierce and fiery. You make the hard stuff look easy. Ambition and adventure fuel you. You're a brave and daring spirit who lets nothing hold you back. Leave it to you to do something groundbreaking. You have a strong sense of self and recognize how much power there is in just being who you are. Your love, affection and generosity know no bounds. Your positive energy is infectious. People feel better just by being in your company. This year, there's no sense in looking back because you're moving upward and onward.