Orcas Island High School art student Moose Kinsey has won in the Washington State High School Art Show and will be recognized at a reception in Seattle next month hosted by the Superintendent of Public Instruction.

“Jackie Robinson 42” by Kinsey, a junior, has been selected to receive the Washington Interscholastic Activities Association Award in the 2023 Superintendent’s High School Art Show. An Art Show trophy, cash award and a certificate signed by the Superintendent of Public Instruction will be awarded during the Art Show Award Ceremony on May 30, 2023 at Benaroya Hall in Seattle. It is the 50th Anniversary of the Art Show.

His piece was originally entered and was selected as a regional finalist at the NWESD Regional High School Art Show along with 16 others in order to advance to the State art competition. Kinsey’s mixed media piece made of cardboard layers with paint and custom stamping was created in Corey Wiscomb’s Art class at Orcas High School. It was chosen out of 260 entries to represent the Northwest ESD 189 region covering five different counties (approximately 16% of Washington State’s K-12 public school students). The regional winners then competed against the state’s other eight district’s regional finalists in the state competition.

You can see the regional winners gallery here (https://www.nwesd.org/2023-art-show-winners-gallery/), and last year’s state winners gallery here (https://www.k12.wa.us/…/superintendents-high…/2022). There are over a million students in Washington, and only a select group receives an award!

This art piece is an ode to the great Jackie Robinson, whose character, both on and off the baseball field, has inspired me in every aspect of my life.

During the process of creating this piece, I learned many new skills through the inclusion of different types of media – there is cardboard, paint and one layer is even composed of baseball box scores. One example of a new skill I learned is the linoleum print “42” which patterns the background, which I had to carve out a unique stamp and print on the cardboard. I enjoy working in all forms of art from theater to filmmaking to creating original artworks in order to express ideas. I love working with pen and paper as well as cardboard and paint. In school, with my teacher Corey Wiscomb, I am learning other mediums and am happy to be able to submit my work.