Bluey's family, the Heelers, keep it in the fridge

Bluey's family, the Heelers, keep it in the fridge

A tiny detail in one episode of Bluey has sparked a fiery debate: Does Vegemite belong in the fridge or the cupboard?

The iconic 'Heeler family' put theirs in the fridge, according to a clip in a recent episode, but thousands of their followers do not.

'No one wants hard Vegemite, it goes in the cupboard. The idea of it in the fridge makes me gag,' said one mum.

Most people argued the iconic spread doesn't spread once it has been in the fridge, while some worried it would 'change the flavour or consistency'.

'I keep it in the fridge, have you ever seen how gross it looks when you open it to find someone has let butter get in the jar and put it in the pantry now there's melted butter in the Vegemite.'

One woman sat firmly on the fence.

'It is a pantry staple but I put it into he fridge because that's how I was raised,' said another.

While others began questioning their own habits after seeing the show.

'I put in the cupboard but, if they say it goes in the fridge then maybe it does,' one mum said.

Some people said the fictional Heeler family could 'be excused' for their mistake as they live in Queensland.

'It can get very humid. I think everything stays in the fridge.'

'We are in far-North Queensland and definitely keep in the fridge,' said another.

But others said their logic is misguided.

'I've lived in QLD my whole life, 24yrs in FNQ. Not once has my vegemite turned to liquid? Not even melted.

Another mum admitted she is paranoid about food poisoning so 'everything goes in the fridge.

This isn't a new debate, ten years ago a Reddit thread exploded after one man asked for people to come clean if they put the popular spread in the fridge.

He also demanded to know 'what's wrong with them'.

'It's basically a solid mass of preservative, why would anyone put it in the fridge,' one woman said.

'I know right? Barbarians, the lot of them,' added a man.

The 'what goes in the fridge' debate isn't limited to Vegemite. People also argue about tomato sauce, maple syrup and eggs.

One scientist said while Vegemite is 'shelf stable' and 'eggs are best left out because of bacteria in the fridge' sauces and maple syrup need to be kept in the fridge.

'Unless your house stays at or below 4C at all times,' she added.