ANYONE with a smartphone needs to be on the look out for extremely dangerous texts.

They slip into your iPhone or Android messages inbox – and can leave your bank totally empty.

These texts seem totally harmless, simply warning you about an issue with your bank account.

But it's all a devious plot to have you reveal confidential information, Bank of America has warned.

The US bank is alerting users over these "smishing" messages, revealing how they're designed to trick you into handing over "confidential" info.

"Smishing occurs when text messages or other messaging platforms are used to send a fraudulent or deceptive message to gain access to sensitive information," Bank of America warned.

"Cyber criminals when they reach out will often create a sense of urgency.

"To trick you into clicking a link or opening an attachment, which will infiltrate your devices to steal passwords and bank account information."

They'll typically make a serious and time-sensitive claim that urges you to act.

For instance, it's common for scammers to claim that suspicious activity has been detected on your account.

They may also claim that there's a problem with your account or payment info.

And you may be asked to click on a link to make a payment.

These are all red flags that you should ignore.

Bank of America says you must be proactive to avoid being scammed by one of these dangerous texts.

"Be careful when posting personally identifiable information on social media," Bank of America warned.

"Don't reply, click or answer texts from unknown sources or click on their links or attachments.

"If an offer sounds too good to be true, it probably is.

"Or if a text looks strange, look up the sender and call them. Don't use the number they provide."

Finally, Bank of America added that you should never trust unknown individuals.

Phone owners are being urged to verify everything they claim.

Never send any sensitive information to anyone whose identity you can't verify.

It's also important to act quickly if you think that you've been targeted.

Report any fraudulent transactions to your bank as soon as possible.

If you suspect that any passwords have been compromised, change them quickly.

Report the attack to the app or service you were using at the time.

And document everything about the event.