Will Smith was spotted grinning ear to ear when he arrived to film a scene on the set of the upcoming fourth Bad Boys film on Wednesday.

The 54-year-old actor was glimpsed stepping out of his trailer in Atlanta ahead of a scene featuring his longtime costar Martin Lawrence, 57.

It was just the second time that Smith had been spotted on set, following his first appearance on Tuesday.

Smith is gradually making his return to starring in films after his career was put in jeopardy when he slapped Chris Rock at last year's Academy Awards ceremony, shortly before he won the Oscar for Best Actor.

Also spotted on set with him and Lawrence were their costar John Salley and action film superproducer Jerry Bruckheimer.

Will was dressed casually for the warm weather with a black striped short-sleeve shirt which he left unbuttoned over a black tank top.

It appeared to be the same costume he was pictured in on Tuesday, indicating that he was filming similar scenes.

Smith also had on dark pants and wore several gleaming chains and a luxury wristwatch, and he sported a well-kept goatee.

Lawrence was dressed more casually as he stepped out of an SUV onto the set.

He had on a burgundy track suit with thick dark stripes running down the sides, and he rocked a matching set of burgundy-and-white Nikes.

Like his costar, he wore his hair short, and he blocked out the piercing sun with a cool pair of sunglasses.

Salley, who has made appearances in the first two Bad Boy films and the spinoff series L. A.'s Finest — but sat out 2020's Bad Boys For Life — was also glimpsed stepping out of a makeup trailer.

He was dressed casually in a black graphic T-shirt with an olive green zip-up hoodie and dark jeans.

Jerry Bruckheimer proved that he was keeping a close watching on the production, after previously producing the first three entries.

He stepped out of a black SUV while wearing a midnight blue button-up shirt, a black denim jacket, dark jeans and black New Balance trainers.

The legendary producer has made a name for himself as an action specialist by producing films including Top Gun (and it's sequel Maverick), Crimson Tide, The Rock, Armageddon, Black Hawk Down, Beverly Hills Cop and the Pirates Of The Caribbean franchise.

The fourth Bad Boys film was announced in January of this year, with Adil El Arbi and Bilall Fallah set to directed after taking over for original director Michael Bay with Bad Boys For Life.

Smith and Lawrence first starred together in the 1995 original, in which they played narcotics detectives in Miami, before returning for its blockbuster 2003 sequel.

Will seems to be trying to get back to normal after his shocking Oscars slap threatened to derail his career.

While Chris Rock was presenting the award for Best Documentary, he made a few quick jokes and said that Will's wife Jada Pinkett Smith resembled Demi Moore's character from G. I. Jane thanks to her shaved head.

However, it wasn't merely a fashion statement, as Jada had started shaving her head after suffering from hair loss due to alopecia, which Chris' brother later claimed he was unaware of.

On the telecast, Jada was seen with a hurt expression on her face, and Will then stormed up to the stage.

Chris continued smiling, presumably thinking that Will was about to put on some kind of comic show, but instead he slapped the comedian in the face.

Smith would awkwardly go on to win the Best Actor award toward the end of the evening.

In July, he apologized publicly to Rock and to everyone who had seen the slap.

'I made a choice of my own from my own experiences from my history with Chris,' he said, claiming that his wife had not instigated the slap. 'Jada had nothing to do with it. I'm sorry, babe.

'I want to say sorry to my kids and my family for the heat that I brought on all of us,' he continued. 'To all my fellow nominees, this is a community. It's like, I won because you voted for me and it breaks my heart to have stolen and tarnished your moment.'