The British Open took the traditional route as Marwan ElShorbagy reached a fourth career quarter-final. Now, the Egyptian will face the hardest route if he is to reach a first semi-final in his 11th visit at the sport’s oldest event.

The PSA electronic scoring went down at the end of ElShorbagy’s opening game against compatriot Youssef Soliman on Wednesday at Birmingham Rep.

Referee John Massarella reverted to a marking sheet and ElShorbagy, whose older brother was beaten 24 hours earlier, made life easy with a rapier-like performance, winning 11-8, 11-6, 11-8 against an out-of-touch opponent.

World No.6 ElShorbagy’s weight of shot and racket speed proved too good against an error-prone Egyptian – a far cry from his run to the recent Optasia final in Wimbledon.

The 29-year-old ElShorbagy, after a one-way 45-minute run out, now has over 48 hours before he returns to face defending champion Paul Coll on Friday night.

ElShorbagy may have ‘Jnr’ written on his back after his surname, but there’s no denying that he looks every bit a major contender when in rhythm. So, could this be the year when he finally lands a major senior title after losing to Mohamed at the 2017 world championships in Manchester?

As of Wednesday afternoon, should he beat Coll, who was in pedestrian mode in casting aside Saurav Ghosal, he is in line to meet World No.1 Diego Elias in the semi-finals, a player he has lost out to in two finals Stateside earlier this year, including the Tournament of Champions.

ElShorbagy will be hoping that the new British Open venue will play into his hands, given that the Kiwi landed the last two titles in Hull before this year’s move south.

Then again, he trains nearby with coach Rob Owen and won last summer’s Commonwealth singles and doubles title.

“I think I am the only person that was gutted it [the British Open] was leaving Hull,” said Coll.

Read More: How world reacted to Diego Elias reaching squash World No.1

“Some great memories there the last two years, but Birmingham is like a second home here.

“It is really nice to play here, I feel at home here in Birmingham. I had a great week, been here for two weeks. I feel good, feeling comfortable, lots of energy so I am excited to keep this going!”