Newsable is brought to you by BNZ. Listen to today’s episode in the player below.

Newsable is Stuff’s daily news podcast, wrapping up what’s worth talking about in a short package every weekday morning. You can find new episodes and more detail on our stories here or in our newsletter. Make sure to like and follow us wherever you get your podcasts and across Instagram, TikTok and YouTube.

An online security expert says constant vigilance and better online education are the best ways to counteract a seeming glut of online and offline scams.

Last week journalist Oriini Kaipara was forced to take to Instagram to warn followers against buying weight loss and gambling products she supposedly ‘endorsed’.

And text scams seem to be another method du jour, with a common one purportedly from Waka Kotahi urging the recipient to pay an overdue speeding fine.

A recent report from CERT, the government’s cybersecurity watchdog, suggested New Zealanders lost some $20 million to online scammers in 2022.

READ MORE:

* Warning on scam urging people to renew licence plate

* Coronavirus: Kiwis warned to be extra careful as virus-related scams rise

* Online banking scam hits Northland

Andrew Chen, a senior research fellow at the Koi Tū think-tank, told Newsable that, while certain scams that lure in a lot of people might get a lot of interest, there doesn’t seem to be an unusual spike in scamming activity overall.

“There’s been no appreciable increase in the level of scams relative to any other period of time”, he says.

“At the end of the day, these are not very sophisticated scams because the unit economics are such that you don’t have to scam a lot of people to make it worthwhile

“They just spam as many people as they can, and it costs them so little to put a message out there that even if one person gives them money it was probably a positive return on investment.”

Chen says better education about what to watch out for is probably our best tool when it comes to limiting the damage scammers do to people.

He says a good rule of thumb is: if it seems too good to be true, it probably is.

Ironically, some people may actually be too vigilant when it comes to identifying scams: in August last year, Waka Kotahi sent letters to dozens of people who had overpaid registration fees and were due a refund.

At least 150 of those people indeed thought it was too good to be true, and contacted Waka Kotahi saying they thought they were being scammed.