This interview with Harlan Crow was very interesting. It is fine for Crow to have a friendship with Justice Clarence Thomas. My issue with Crow is his blaming the press, ProPublica and his assertion that ProPublica is being “funded by leftists.” He even said it lacks integrity.

Per ProPublica, it is an independent and nonpartisan reporting source. The actual blame here is solely on Justice Clarence Thomas. Unfortunately, he has a problem with reporting of his personal financial dealings.

Yes, he gets a pass for not reporting all his vacations with Crow, valued at hundreds of thousands of dollars. But, the selling of Thomas’ home and properties to Crow should have been reported. It doesn’t matter that Crow had intentions on making the home a museum to honor the justice, it only matters that it was not reported in Thomas’ annual financial disclosure, as required by law.

Also, Thomas has had to amend many other years for failure to report accurate financials. Corporations in this country have a business code of conduct and ethics. Why not the Supreme Court? Our country deserves better.

Harlan Crow is correct to say that Clarence Thomas is the target of a hit job. But it’s Thomas’ own mistakes that are providing the target. He’s a Supreme Court justice! To say he doesn’t understand financial disclosure laws, like he has claimed more than once? If that’s true, then he has no right to be on the Supreme Court.

Re: “Abbott: Together, we can save lives — To save more Texans from fentanyl, legislation, law enforcement and awareness must be pulling in same direction,” by Greg Abbott, Sunday Opinion.

I appreciate Gov. Greg Abbott’s dedication to removing the deadly drug fentanyl from the streets of Texas and beyond with his “One Pill Kills” campaign. According to the governor, 4,800 Texans died from fentanyl poisoning in a three-year period, from 2019 to 2022.

According to data cited at everystat.org, Texas has, on average, 3,996 gun deaths per year, or 11,988 for a three-year period. Perhaps the governor should seriously consider a “One Gun Kills” campaign and enact more commonsense gun laws. Together, we can save lives.

In this op-ed, Abbott put forward some good initiatives to fight the fentanyl crisis. However, he omitted a smuggling problem that is helping to fuel illegal drugs coming across our borders. The smuggling problem is military-style weapons moving from the United States to Mexico. The weapons are often used to arm the cartels who traffic the fentanyl.

America’s lax firearms laws make it easy for the cartels to acquire the weapons from the United State and smuggle them into Mexico. Most of the cartel’s guns come from the United States.

Until something is done to stop this arms pipeline, the cartel will maintain its power. Abbott should realize that the border is porous in both directions.

Re: “Abortion bans spark concern inside the GOP about backlash — Some worry inflexible stances will keep party out of White House,” Sunday news story.

Talk about not reading the room. Over 55% of all Americans and 62% of American women  are pro-choice, yet Republicans continue to double and even triple down on banning (and criminalizing) all abortions.

Not to mention sensible gun control laws, which over 65%  of all Americans support — yet Republicans refuse to even discuss banning military-style weapons.

Unless the Republican Party at large begins to show some empathy and understanding about these issues and what Americans really want, it’s hard to see them making inroads in any elections other than those in hardcore red communities. Until that time, if it ever comes, GOP insiders should be concerned.

As a Texan, I’ve always known one cannot even discuss elected judges without at least a whiff of corruption creeping in. But I have always naively thought appointed judges might observe a higher standard of behavior and would avoid even the appearance of impropriety.

Justice Clarence Thomas and Judge Matthew Kacsmaryk have disabused me of that notion.

In the “Brave New World” of GOP Texas, parents of an 18-year-old high school senior would be notified whenever he checks out a book, but would not be notified when he purchases an AR-15.

Serious question: Why is banning books considered a solution by some, but banning military-style weapons won’t work?

We welcome your thoughts in a letter to the editor. See the guidelines and submit your letter here.