ESPN draft analysts Todd McShay and Mel Kiper Jr. teamed up to release a new three-round mock draft on Tuesday, delivering a trio of Cowboys predictions as a result. Kiper handled the odd number picks while McShay took the evens, meaning he made all the selections on behalf of Dallas.

McShay gave them TCU receiver Quentin Johnston in the first round (26th overall), Iowa tight end Sam LaPorta in the second (58th) and TCU running back Kendre Miller in the third (90th). Kiper agreed afterward that the Cowboys would target those positions, but added he would take different players in the first two rounds.

“C+ or B-,” he said for his grade of McShay’s picks. “I would have attacked it a little bit differently than Todd did. I’d be going tight end with the strength of this draft being Darnell Washington (out of) Georgia and you think about Luke Musgrave (from) Oregon State. One of those two in the first. Then a Marvin Mims Jr., wide receiver out of Oklahoma, heck of a football player in round two.

“I have no issue with Kendre Miller. I like the running back out of TCU in round three, Todd. I just would have gone about my business of filling needs and getting the best players a little bit differently than you did.”

McShay responded by defending his selections, adding that he could see the Cowboys trading up in the first to select Texas running back Bijan Robinson. The Cowboys let go of running back Ezekiel Elliott this offseason and many believe they could add a rookie to pair next to Tony Pollard.

“I did get handcuffed a little bit in the first round, I’ll admit,” McShay said. “I think Dallas could trade up for Bijan Robinson. I love that fit with what they’re trying to do. If they stay back, hopefully one of the tight ends is there. It wasn’t the case in this mock, so I went with a wide receiver in Quentin Johnston, who I get is a little bit of a reach. I love Sam LaPorta, though, in the second round. I think he’s gonna be a difference-maker like a lot of these tight ends in the first three rounds. Then getting a running back, as you agree with. They need a guy who can be their thumper with Tony Pollard.”

Either way, it seems tight end, receiver and running back are the top priorities for the Cowboys in the draft according to both experts. Dallas will hope to get players who can make an impact right away at those positions as they look to improve upon a Divisional Round exit in the playoffs last season.