Footage gathered by locals shows the damage to the Howard Street bollards

Locals fear vandalism and mother says it puts cycling children in danger

A bollard believed to be the most hated in Britain has been fitted with a high-tech tracking device after it was repeatedly stolen by furious drivers trying to use the street as a short cut.

The pilloried plastic post in Oxford has been attacked in a variety of inventive ways including being crushed, burned and even snatched from the ground.

Its role in the much-hated low-traffic neighborhood schemes across the UK has made it a focal point for irate drivers simply trying to get to work.

But supporters of the road restrictions have now hit back and are fitting them with trackers to find where they have been taken.

One was dumped in an abandoned house just yards from where it was taken. The unusual theft was featured on an episode of the BBC's Panorama programme.

Presenter Justin Rowlatt said: 'Do we know where this bollard, which went missing this afternoon, do we have any idea where it is?'

Zuhura Plummer, of the group Oxfordshire Liveable Streets, told him: 'We have some idea of where it is.'

Mr Rowlatt looked excited as he continued: 'You have been sent a screenshot haven't you, can you share it with me?'

They then looked at Ms Plummer's phone, which displayed a symbol showing where the bollard and tracker were, just yards away in a deserted house having apparently been put through a broken window.

The problem between rival factions has become so fractious that those who support the scheme often stand in the road when the posts have been taken.

One elderly gentleman told the programme he was punched in the face during one encounter.

MailOnline told how vandals in Oxford have been caught on camera as they turned to arson in a night attack by setting fire to the bollard.

Drivers destroyed 20 bollards in less than three weeks - with vans and cars driving over the barriers, and one vandal ripping a bollard out of the ground and walking it off with it.

A vandal set a bollard alight after 11pm on a Sunday night in July on Howard Street in east Oxford.

Video footage from local residents shows shows drivers destroying barriers put up for the low-traffic neighbourhood, including a DPD delivery driver, a taxi and several vans and cars.

A spokesperson for DPD told MailOnline: 'It is unacceptable behaviour and the local depot is investigating that particular incident. We have reminded all drivers in the area to respect the low-traffic neighbourhood initiative and route accordingly.'

Oxfordshire County Council condemned the 'unprecedented levels of vandalism', and local taxpayers have had to pay £100,000 to replace destroyed plastic bollards with steel ones to thwart potential vandals.

The steel bollards will still allow emergency services to enter the road when needed.

Josie Proctor, a driver, cyclist and mother who lives on Howard Street, said that she was worried that children cycling to school could be injured by cars after the bollards were vandalised.

She added: 'My main concern is that by vandalising bollards they put vulnerable road users like kids cycling to school in danger as they don't expect a car barrelling towards them where they expected a filter. I've seen so many near misses, it's only a matter of time before someone gets seriously hurt.

'I recognise the LTNs are a contentious issue. Protesting is one thing, but these mindless thugs have cost taxpayers £100,000 to replace the barriers with steel bollards and many hours of police and council workers' time which could be better used.

'We have submitted the unredacted footage with number plates and faces visible to the police so they can tackle this criminality and get some money back to the public purse, as well as deter others and make the roads safer.

'We're really pleased that councillors are now installing steel bollards that will be much harder to destroy, but we'd like to see some official cameras installed that could catch and fine those that flout the rules and the thugs that destroy public property and endanger lives.

'We ask the vandals as one neighbour to another to please respect the trial and help keep all those walking and cycling on these roads safe.'

Elizabeth Mills, 71, who lives in the Divinity Road low-traffic neighbourhood, said: 'I'm ambivalent about the LTNs; in some ways they make my life better, and in some ways more difficult. However, what really makes me angry is the vandalism. I simply don't think people should go around breaking the law because they disagree - call me old fashioned, but I don't.'

The residents' group Oxfordshire Liveable Streets has contacted DPD to urge the firm to investigate footage of one of its vans, and is asking all taxi firms to respect the LTN scheme.

Plastic bollards were originally installed following consultation with the emergency services to reduce the amount of time it takes to remove the bollards in case of access being needed by the police, fire service or paramedics.

While vandals have been damaging the bollards, the LTNs have proved popular with residents, according to a YouGov poll in which a majority backed them by two to one.

Some residents have also shown their commitment to LTNs by acting as 'human bollards' to stop car and van drivers going through the areas illegally.

Locals took matters into their own hands to protect cyclists, pedestrians and children from drivers flouting the rules, sharing a video on social media that generated 35,000 views.

Robin Tucker, chairman of the Coalition for Healthy Streets and Active Travel (CoHSAT), said: 'One thing we shouldn't forget is that the criminal action we see being perpetrated here is by a small number of nasty criminals. A minority of people oppose these measures, and an even smaller minority of those people commit these acts of vandalism.

'It's worth remembering that independent polling conducted by YouGov showed that residents in Oxford support the low-traffic neighbourhoods by a majority of two to one.'

Nearly six in ten people living across Oxford support low-traffic neighbourhoods such as those installed in east Oxford almost six months ago - around twice as many as oppose them.

A survey carried out by YouGov on behalf of Oxfordshire Liveable Streets showed that 56 per cent of respondents supported LTNs, while only 29 per cent opposed them.

The data also showed that all age groups supported the LTNs, with younger residents (aged 18-34) backing them by a large majority, while older people (over-55s) also backed them, though by a smaller majority of 49 per cent to 44 per cent.

LTNs are slightly more popular with men than women, with 60 pre cent of male respondents supporting them, compared with 52 per cent of female ones. Across both genders, just 29 per cent of both women and men opposed LTNs.

On the topic of the new steel bollards, Oxfordshire county councillor Andrew Gant, Cabinet Member for Highways Management, said: 'This is a key moment in the continuation of the LTN trial in east Oxford.

'Ongoing damage has come at a significant cost to the council and Thames Valley Police in both time and money, with potentially serious consequences for people’s safety.

'Damage to the bollards and persistent use of the low-traffic neighbourhood streets as through roads is not only a risk for the safety of road users but impacts monitoring data quality, which could delay the decision on the trial.'

Rob MacDougall, Chief Fire Officer for Oxfordshire Fire and Rescue Service, added: 'The Fire and Rescue service is aware of the plans to replace the existing plastic bollards for the east Oxford LTNs with steel ones. Emergency services will still be able to remove these metal bollards to gain access when needed.

'When the existing bollards have been damaged by being driven over or vandalism to the locking mechanism, it has taken up valuable time when we have needed to gain access.'

A hooded gang of were seen melting traffic-calming bollards in Oxford in July as a mounting public backlash against the scheme in the city reached 'another level'.

By July the trial of three low-traffic neighbourhoods in the Divinity Road, St Clement's and St Mary's areas that began in May had already proven divisive.

And by then the council had already spent £12,000 replacing or repairing street furniture such as bollards and planters which had been vandalised.

Thames Valley Police has been contacted for further comment.

BBC Panorama: Road Wars: Neighbourhood Traffic Chaos, is on BBC One, 20:00, Monday 17 April and BBC iPlayer.