News & Features

Out and About in Dumfries & Galloway

News & Features

Out and About in Dumfries & Galloway

South Scotland MSP Colin Smyth joined Dumfries and Galloway Council Armed Forces Champion Cllr Archie Dryburgh, veterans and serving Armed Forces personnel at the Annandale Armed Forces and Veterans Breakfast Club in Annan on Saturday.

The club is held at Annan Athletic on the third Saturday in the month and is just one of a number of clubs across the UK and beyond.

Annan Athletic has signed the Armed Forces Covenant which aims to support the Armed Forces Community and recognise the value Serving Personnel, both Regular and Reservists, Veterans and military families contribute to our business and our country.

The purpose of the breakfast clubs is to facilitate veterans and serving Armed forces personnel to meet face to face in a safe, social environment to help combat loneliness and also support veterans returning into the community when they leave the forces.

As well as the club in Annan, there are a number of others across the region, including at the Veterans Garden at the Crichton in Dumfries; in Newton Stewart and Stranraer.

Colin Smyth said: “I was honoured to be able to attend the Annandale Armed Forces and Veterans Breakfast Club and I wish to thank Archie and all the veterans and Armed Forces personnel who offered me such a warm welcome.

“The club is a great opportunity for like minded people to get together in an informal setting and catch up.

“I would urge anyone who is interested in coming along to find our more through the website or join the Facebook group.

“The Armed Forces and Veterans Breakfast Clubs across the region play a really important role in supporting both local serving armed forces personnel, as well as veterans moving back into the community. We shouldn’t underestimate the importance of that face to face peer support and how challenging it can be for those who have served our country in the armed forces, often facing really traumatic situations, to then find themselves moving back into civilian life.

“The fact that Annan Athletic FC host the club at Galabank is also another example of just how much of a community club they are and it was good to discuss some of the important initiatives being planned to grow the Black and Gold Foundation at the club.

Councillor Archie Dryburgh said: “It was great to see Colin at the breakfast club in Annan on Saturday. Colin is a keen supporter of the clubs including the work we are aiming to do in Annandale to grow community initiatives through the Black and Gold Foundation.

“The Annandale Armed Forces and Veterans Breakfast Club is one of an increasing network of clubs both here and worldwide.

“The club is open to veterans and serving members of His Majesty’s Armed Forces and I would urge them to come along to club in Annan on the third Saturday of the month. It’s a great opportunity to meet with like minded people for support and chat, as well as a great breakfast. “

ALDI DONATES OVER 1,980 MEALS TO GOOD CAUSES IN DUMFRIES AND GALLOWAY OVER THE EASTER SCHOOL HOLIDAYS

Solway Support Complete ‘Walk 100 Miles in March’ To Raise Funds for DGMHA

The ‘Can You Dig It’ Archaeology Project approaches its final burst of activity

ESSENTIAL RESURFACING ON THE A701 AT KIRKLAND COMMENCES THURSDAY 20TH APRIL

ALDI DONATES OVER 1,980 MEALS TO GOOD CAUSES IN DUMFRIES AND...