Hey, you! Yes, you! Do you feel that your eLearning courses are putting your learners to sleep? Are you getting feedback that your courses are more boring than watching paint dry? Well, you’re not alone. Bad eLearning has plagued the industry for decades.

The term eLearning made its debut in the late 1990s. It quickly became the preferred term to describe all forms of learning that are conducted using electronic media. Despite the growing demand for online courses, many organizations still struggle with creating effective eLearning experiences for their employees.  Why?

Creating effective eLearning courses is no easy feat. It takes a lot of time, effort, and expertise. You need to know how people learn, have multimedia development skills, and be able to design instructional content that engages learners.

Unfortunately, many organizations still prioritize speed and cost over quality, resulting in poorly designed courses that are as engaging as a brick wall. It’s like they’re saying, “Here’s your training, but don’t expect to actually learn anything.”

But don’t despair! There are ways to create engaging and effective eLearning courses. You just need to invest the necessary time and resources to do so. And let’s be honest; if you’re going to create a course, you might as well make it one that your learners will actually enjoy.

So, let’s work together to end bad eLearning courses once and for all. Let’s create courses that engage learners, provide effective training, and make learning enjoyable. After all, isn’t that what eLearning is all about?

Do you suspect you have an eLearning course that could be improved? Are you unsure of where to start or what areas to focus on? Whether you’ve created the course in-house or outsourced its design and development, it can be hard to determine if your course is effective or could use some fine-tuning. Fortunately, I’ve compiled this checklist to help you identify areas you can review. If, after reviewing the checklist, you think you need to make a change, reach out to me and let’s chat.