Have you ever been afraid to go for a stroll in the woods because of the countless critters lurking around? Well, fear not because we’ve got a list that will make you feel much better about sharing the great outdoors with our furry (and not-so-furry) friends.

A recent question, “What’s an animal that is not as dangerous as people think?” had us thinking about all the animals that get a bad rap for being vicious killers when they’re just misunderstood. So, here are some people talking about creatures that you might have thought were deadly, but are actually pretty harmless.

“Cheetahs. Don’t run. They are skittish. They don’t expect the prey not to run. No documented case of a cheetah attacking a human in the wild ever. Just stand your ground and look big.

The only big cat that will work with.”

“The first lesson in the bush in Botswana is not to run because food runs.

Works most of the time.”

“I’m from Zimbabwe, and 98% of the time, the people that wild animals kill are almost always tourists or people from rich countries. Hippos mostly kill locals while crossing rivers. Random animal attacks are rare, but the tourists almost always walk into danger to take pictures, or they think the animal is cute and doesn’t look dangerous, opening car windows to feed animals, etc. I think they should publicize the statistics of how many are getting killed, but they won’t do it to boost tourism; If I had a choice whether to run through a herd of buffalo vs. a pride of lions, I would choose to run through the lions.”

“Y’all ever seen a potter wasp? It’s a hornetish bugger with a needle-thin abdomen that flies around, looking like it packs a nastier sting than five yellowjackets combined.

Turns out, more docile and less painful than a yellowjacket. It just has a frightening appearance.”

“I’m gonna run from it anyways because I’m terrified of anything that both flies and stings.”

“Stingrays. They usually swim away from you. That one that killed Steve Irwin was huge and was probably having a bad day and attacked.”

“If it helps, one of the main food interests for juvenile great white sharks is stingrays.”

“So what you’re saying is that where there are stingrays, there are sharks?”

Many people seem to think that they are aggressive animals who, if you were to find yourself standing in front of, you are about to get torn apart or bludgeoned to death. They are herbivores. They have been studied extensively to be inherently peaceful animals that avoid violence unless, of course, all other options are exhausted. People literally go on walking tours up into mountains in the heart of gorilla territories and sit around families of them with the silverback present.”

“What they mean is that the Incredibly Deadly Viper is, in fact, an elapid snake.”

“Moose. They aren’t as dangerous as people think. They are even more dangerous.”

“When I started reading, I’m like, this person has no clue what they are talking about, and then at the end, I’m like, yes, they do. Well done.”

“And comparatively, the Rhino is much more docile.”

“I hear Sharks will leave you completely the heck alone if you stay out of the ocean.”

“I go to the beach every year. I always worry about sharks. So, as I’ve gotten older, I don’t go very far out into the water. But last year at the beach I saw a shark. He was thrashing around angrily with his teeth on full display. It was terrifying. No one was bitten, thank God. He was probably 15-20 feet away from me.”

“Black bears as long as you leave them be. Grizzlies and polar bears will destroy you, though.”

“Yeah, encountered black bears before, back in the day. Generally, just pointing a gun at them was all it took to get them to nope out. They might not understand the mechanics, but they seemed well aware of the danger guns represented.”

“Tarantulas. They are depicted as deadly in so many movies, but like bees and wasps, their bite, while painful, isn’t generally harmful to humans unless you’re allergic.”

“Their urticating hairs are probably more of a threat than their bite.”

“Ah, the New World tarantula problem. I accidentally got some off my rose hair’s molt once, and holy crap, did I regret everything.”

“Opossums. They’re super timid and very RARELY carry rabies. You want them in your yard.”

“They’re more likely to poop all over themselves than bite you. I had a rescue once many years ago, and she was honestly the sweetest thing.

“Don’t listen to anyone else; crocodiles and alligators are dangerous.”

“Crocs are definitely dangerous because they will come after you. Gators are dangerous in the way sharks are, where they present danger if attacking, but that likelihood is much lower, making them “relatively” less dangerous. But this doesn’t mean approach them; it just means leave them alone, and if you run into one, be chill, and you’re likely to get away without an encounter.”

“Small white rabbits. Monty Python has given them a bad rap. Actually, strike that; my small white rabbit chewed a hole in my shoe today. My leg could be next. Run away!”

“I warned you, but did you listen to me? Oh, noooo, it’s just a harmless little bunny, isn’t it?”

“Your average garden snake is chill and just wants to slither along.”

“I live in Australia. Your advice is terrible.”

“It should be common knowledge that none of the animals mentioned here applies to Australia. Beautiful country, but I’ve heard about the snakes and the spiders.”

“I have one laying on my shoulder/ribs at the moment. The only dangerous thing about him is that he’s fat.”

“Honey bees. People are terrified of them, but the last thing a honeybee wants to do is sting you. They just want to work and protect their beehive.”

“Ground hornets, on the other hand, are completely horrible. You can be 20 feet away from a hole, minding your own business. Then boom, stung right in the butt.”

“​​Sharks are chill as heck. They’re like giant sea cats. They’re curious, get places they shouldn’t be, and want to play with things. Unfortunately, they don’t have hands or paws, so they use their mouth. And they will tell you when to leave them alone.”

“Wolves. In the whole of recorded history, there have been very few reported wolf attacks on people. Yet they are portrayed like these evil, aggressive monsters that pounce on you at first sight.”

“Jaguars. There’s only one recorded case of a jaguar attacking and killing a human. Jaguars are actually as interested in us as we are in them. They study us the way we study them. It’s quite cute.”

“I can’t take them seriously. When I was a kid, someone put one… like a single one, in a lake in Canada, and it washed up dead on the beach. They shut the thing down for like two weeks to try and find more because of the public outcry.”

“Claims adjuster here – I handle farm casualty claims specifically. The amount of car-cow collisions is staggering. Neither side wins-cow is usually dead, and the car is usually totaled. Occupants of car often hurt.”

MORE FROM BECAUSE MOM SAYS:

We wanted to know – what things seem to get praise in our culture but absolutely shouldn’t?

THE DECAY OF OUR MORALS: 18 DISTURBING TRENDS IN OUR SOCIETY WE GLORIFY BUT SHOULDN’T

Memories of the “good old days” keep us trapped in the past. Baby boomers love to retell tales of how it was “in my day.” At the same time, millennials will tell them to get with the times. Being stuck in a time warp from which they don’t want to snap out of, here are things that baby boomers still think are fantastic.

STUCK IN THE 60S: 10 THINGS BABY BOOMERS REFUSE TO LET GO OF

You may think that, finally, you have your man figured out. How wrong you were. Here are 10 things men love that you may find surprising, according to Reddit.

10 THINGS MEN DESIRE THAT WILL MAKE WOMEN RAISE THEIR EYEBROWS

We wanted to know what hobbies are a big fat nope.

THE RED FLAGS ARE WAVING: 18 HOBBIES THAT WILL SCARE AWAY ANY POTENTIAL PARTNER

Regarding men and women, it seems like we’re from different planets, though we are the same species. Women always come across as enigmatic, a mystery men must fathom. Yet, men can be just as challenging to understand. Here are ten things that men wish women knew about them. Hopefully, this helps females gain deeper insight into the world of men. (According to Reddit)

WAKE UP, LADIES! THE 10 BITTER TRUTHS MEN WISH WOMEN WOULD FINALLY ACKNOWLEDGE