On Monday, European Parliament President Roberta Metsola announced that Belgian authorities have requested the removal of parliamentary immunity from Greek actor and SYRIZA MEP Alexis Georgoulis, 48, after a complaint of sexual harassment was made against him.

The complaint was made in 2020 and involved a member of the EU Commission legal service and a member of the political council of Greek political party PASOK. Metsola stated that the request has been referred to the legal affairs committee.

“I received a request from the competent Belgian authorities to lift the parliamentary immunity of Alexis Georgoulis. The request is referred to the legal affairs committee,” Metsola said at the start of a plenary session in Strasbourg.

Georgoulis, who rose to fame as a heartthrob 20 years ago through the Greek series ‘Eisai to Tairi Mou’ that was partly filmed in Australia, and the Hollywood film ‘My Life in Ruins’ with Nia Vardalos, denies the allegations.

The MEP has resigned from the SYRIZA party as well as the SYRIZA-Progressive Alliance group in the European Parliament, but intends to fight for justice and the removal of his immunity.

“To my great surprise, I am informed that an obviously false and slanderous complaint has been filed against me for an incident that allegedly happened three years ago. Unfortunately, we live in difficult and dangerous times. In the face of this false and insulting attack, which was carried out – probably not by chance – a few days before the national elections [in Greece], I intend to fight my battle for justice, for the truth and the rehabilitation of my name, requesting the removal of my MEP’s immunity,” Georgoulis stated.

The ruling New Democracy party (EPP) asked SYRIZA to provide an explanation, while PASOK released another statement.

“The request to lift the immunity of Mr Georgoulis is the product of an investigation by the Belgian authorities following a complaint made in 2020 […] The procedures followed by the Belgian authorities are within their competence and are not ‘dictated’ by third parties, as some implied”, PASOK said in a statement.

In a statement released on Monday, SYRIZA said it had suspended Georgoulis from the party until the case is clarified.

“MEP Alexis Georgoulis is being suspended from SYRIZA-PS following the information we had today about a complaint against him and given the need to clarify the relevant case fully,” SYRIZA said.

The complainant’s name has been leaked to the press, drawing criticism from women’s organisations and PASOK, who accuse SYRIZA of prioritising their own interests over those of the alleged victim. The plaintiff is also an active member of the Greek socialist party (PASOK) and is expected to run in the upcoming elections. According to Skai TV channel the two used to have a relationship.

The European Commission will vote on lifting Georgoulis’ immunity within two weeks, before the date of national elections in Greece, 21 May.