Skip to main content

What are you looking for?

PUI all around the world

With its 40 years of experience, Première Urgence Internationale :

With more than 100 Millions € yearly budget

Thanks to the work and commitment of :

Around 225 expatriates from 45 different nationalities

PUI works in 10 areas of intervention and distinguishes itself by the implementation of an integrated approach in its response. This method aims to identify and understand the needs of all those affected by a crisis. Our teams come together to bring a rapid global response to the basic needs of populations affected by humanitarian crises to help them regain independence and dignity.

Learn more on our history, our values, our areas of intervention.

Focus on our activities in SUDAN

Our mission in SUDAN has been open since 2020. PUI develops its integrated approach with health and nutrition. Furthermore, PUI works on launching health and nutrition activities in support to existing health facilities in the surroundings of refugee camps, supporting local communities, refugees and asylum seekers

What about the Health Coordinator - Sudan ?

As Health Coordinator, you will be responsible for the development and implementation of the mission's operational Health strategy as well as for the quality of current and future Health programmes throughout the design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation phases. You will build the capacity of the mission’s Health department and provides technical support to the project teams and in particular to the Health Project Managers via a functional relationship. You will represent PUI to the authorities, humanitarian actors and donors within the Health sector.

For this purpose, you will be responsible for :

Context analysis / Strategy / Development: You will participate in the development of the operational strategy in Health and contributes to the design of new relevant Health interventions on the mission based on the identified Health needs in the country, and in line with PUI’s Health policy and intervention framework. In coordination with the Health team, you will carry out epidemiological monitoring for the country and analyse strengths and weaknesses from a public health perspective.

Programmes quality: You will provide technical support in your field of expertise to the programme teams, in particular to the Health Programme Managers, and ensure the quality and effectiveness of the mission's Health programmes.

Representation / Coordination: You will ensure PUI's external representation for the Health sector to partners, donors, national authorities and local actors. You will represent PUI in the Health Cluster / Health sector coordination group meetings. You will contribute to the good information sharing within the Health sector.

Human Resources / Training: You will provide technical support to the project teams and in particular to the Health teams. You will provide support to the project managers for the recruitment of technical staff in Health. Working alongside the Head of Mission (HoM) and/or the Deputy HoM for Programs and the HQ Health Advisor, you will identify key strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and gaps within Health department. You will supervise the content of Health training and the quality of Health activities on the basis of identified needs.

Logistics and Administration: You will ensure the teams under your responsibility follow logistic and administrative procedures and keep the logistic and administrative departments informed of any relevant developments.

Security: You will contribute to the compliance with security rules on the mission and share all information related to security with your line manager and/or to the mission's security manager. You will contribute when necessary to the choice of referral options for the health care of the mission's expatriates.

The challenges that await you :

- Challenging security context, - recurrent crises and outbreaks - a growing portfolio of projects and new teams to train and support

What you will need to succeed

Training: You hold a Medical diploma or a Paramedic training, and completed a Medical Internship. If you got a Master’s degree in Pharmacy, Public Health or Project management, it would be an asset.

Experience: You are strengthened by minimum 3 years of experience in the field with international NGOs in medical project coordination. A previous experience as Medical Coordinator or in an equivalent position would be appreciated. You already worked with Première Urgence Internationale? It would be a definite asset!

Skills: You master humanitarian project management and team management, you have a detailed knowledge of donors prerequisites. You also have excellent writing skills.

Qualities: You are a good communicator, both in writing and orally. You demonstrate good team spirit, the ability to make decisions, trustworthiness and a sense of responsibility, organisational skills, reactivity, ability to be thorough and to adapt. You have a strong ability to resist stress and particularly in unstable circumstances.

Languages: English has no secrets for you! All the better, it is mandatory for this position. If you speak Arabic, it would be a definite asset.

« You will be part of a professional, dynamic and committed Team, providing critical, life-saving health and nutrition services to people affected by repetitive displacements and conflicts. If you are passionate about humanitarian work, have experience in health and nutrition responses, are a good team player, and have a positive attitude, we want to hear from you! »

Monthly Gross Income : 2 650,00 - 3 130,00 EUR depending on your experience in International Solidarity + 50€ per semester of seniority with PUI

Paid Leaves Policy : 5 weeks of paid leaves per year + return ticket every 6 months

Première Urgence Internationale sees diversity of nationalities, genders, beliefs, profiles and statuses among its Human Resources as a major asset for its humanitarian action, and therefore compels itself to the strict observance of the principle of non-discrimination throughout its recruitment process.

Première Urgence Internationale applies a policy of zero tolerance towards exploitation, sexual abuse and mistreatment, in all its forms, of women, children and all other vulnerable persons. It engages all its staff to promote, disseminate and respect the principles set out in its ethical charter.

Please note that Première Urgence Internationale shall not in any case request a financial contribution for administrative costs related to recruitment. Any such information would be fraudulent, please disregard it.

You recognize yourself in this profile and you adhere to our commitments ? You feel ready to take up the challenge and to join PUI great family ?

If you wish to apply, follow this link and fill in the form on our career site.

Regional Director statement on attacks on health care in Sudan [EN/AR]

Medical Teams International Pauses Its Life-Saving Healthcare Programs in Sudan Due to Conflict

Conflict will worsen the humanitarian situation in Sudan