Bourton on the Water is one of the most idyllic villages in the Cotswolds (and indeed, England). There are plenty of things to do from walking to cozy pubs to exploring country parks, and more. One of the best places to stay on a trip here is in one of the many cottages in Bourton on the Water, where you’re sure to get a real slice of country life.

I’ve been visiting the Cotswolds for years as I have friends in the area and gorgeous Bourton is one of my favorite places to spend a few days. So, if you’re looking for where to stay in Bourton on the Water, this guide will give you the lowdown on the best cottages around the village.

Whether you’re looking for cozy and cute or somewhere for the whole family, this list of Bourton on the Water cottages has you covered. With a wide range of self-catering properties in the village, Bourton is the perfect place to escape to and unwind in one of the most beautiful places in the country.

Below, you’ll find a comprehensive guide to the best cottages in Bourton the Water. These properties to rent around the village come with everything you could possibly need for your stay and many come with private (free) parking too. You’ll be in the heart of the action and within easy walking distance to all the local attractions.

The gorgeous Bourton Croft Cottage is the perfect place to stay for first-time visitors. The property is located in the heart of the village, a stone’s throw from the River Windrush and within a couple of minutes walk from The Kingsbridge Inn and other local pubs and amenities.

This is one of the cottages in Bourton on the Water with three double bedrooms and two bathrooms so it’s an excellent choice for families or groups of friends. The property comes with free parking nearby, a washing machine, a fully equipped kitchen, and a living room featuring a 33″ flatscreen TV.

Bourton isn’t short on excellent places to eat and drink and many of the best pubs and restaurants can be reached by foot. The Croft Restaurant is right on the river and is one of the top places to eat. Nearby attractions include the Model Village and the Cotswold Perfumery.

Bourton Croft Cottage is made with local Cotswold stone and traditional timber features, roofing, and original stone floors. This is definitely one of the coziest cottages in Bourton on the Water but is spacious enough to suit the needs of a large family as it sleeps up to six people. Click here to book this beautiful cottage today.

The fairytale-like Appletree Cottage boasts three bedrooms, stunning garden views, and an outside patio perfect for enjoying this quiet corner of England. The property is located on Bow Lane which is a short walk from the River Windrush and its many beautiful, stone bridges.

There’s plenty to see and do nearby from paddling in the river to stopping in at Cotswold Tea Rooms for a cream tea and browsing the antiques for sale. The cottage is located in the center of the village so everything is just a short walk away. Local attractions include the Motoring and Toy Museum which is well worth a visit.

This is another great place to stay for families and groups of friends as there’s plenty of space inside and out to relax and enjoy the stunning Cotswolds surroundings.

The cottage comes complete with free private parking, two bathrooms, a kitchen with oven and dishwasher, a living room with a dining area, and a flat-screen TV with satellite channels and a DVD player. The bathrooms include both a bath and a walk-in shower and the property offers a linen service. Click here to learn more.

The large, four-bedroom Wisteria Cottage is the perfect property to rent in Bourton on the Water for larger families and big groups as it sleeps up to eight people. It comes with free, private parking and is located on the main High Street with easy access to all the attractions, pubs, and restaurants in Bourton.

There’s a garden and patio to the rear and the property is tastefully decorated in a modern style with bright and airy rooms, wooden flooring, and a large open-plan kitchen, dining, and living area.

Wisteria cottage is just a few hundred meters from The Mousetrap Inn, one of the best pubs in Bourton on the Water, and one of my favorite places for a meal in the village. The picturesque River Windrush is also within walking distance from the cottage, along with all the other tourist sights around Bourton.

The property comes with many modern conveniences from WiFi to a flat-screen TV, and a log burner for cozy, winter evenings. Click here to find out more.

The cute, three-bedroom Tuesday Cottage is another of the idyllic cottages to rent in Bourton on the Water. This stylish property is decorated to a modern standard but retains much of its original charm. The building is made from Cotswold stone and benefits from a stone fireplace with a log burner to keep you warm on winter evenings.

Tuesday Cottage sleeps up to five people with two double bedrooms and one single. There’s a large bathroom with a traditional bath as well as a walk-in shower. The fully-fitted kitchen comes with a fridge, an oven, and a washing machine.

The cottage is located on Clapton Row; just by the river and within walking distance of all the major attractions in and around the village. The Model Village is just across the river, as is The Old New Inn, one of the most historic pubs in Bourton and one of my favorite places to visit for a pint and some traditional pub grub.

The property has a pretty patio garden with a table and chairs so you can enjoy your morning coffee or evening meals in a peaceful spot surrounded by greenery. Click here to book.

The beautiful Ivy Cottage is a 19th-century building that’s decorated to a stylish, modern standard and still retains much of its original charm. Inside, the Cotswold stone fireplace has a log burner for snug winter evenings, and outside features a garden and patio to enjoy in the warmer months.

Ivy Cottage has three bedrooms; two double rooms and a twin, and with two bathrooms, it’s a great option for families. There’s a fully equipped kitchen complete with everything you need for self-catering in Bourton on the Water, a living area with a flat-screen TV, and a garden with a patio for outside dining.

The property is situated opposite my favorite pub in the village, The Mousetrap Inn, so you don’t have far to go for a drink and some excellent food in the evenings when staying here. There’s a public playground for kids nearby and it’s just a short walk to the gorgeous River Windrush that passes through the village.

With all the top Bourton attractions, the river and bridges, footpaths, and the countryside right on the doorstep, Ivy Cottage is a wonderful place to stay to escape the hustle of everyday life. Click Ivy Cottage to find out more.

The charming two-bedroom Barton Cottage is the perfect place for couples and first-timers visiting Bourton on the Water. The cottage is located on the main Lansdowne Road at the top of the village and is a short walk to all the attractions, pubs, and restaurants in Bourton.

From here, you can walk to the nearby, beautiful old mill viewpoint, the local play park, and even the nearby village of Lower Slaughter. The excellent Hawkstone Brewery is also close by so lovers of real ale (craft beer) will be happy with the location. Nearby restaurants and pubs include The Mousetrap Inn and The Willow.

This wonderful Bourton on the Water holiday rental comes with all you need for a comfortable stay; including one double and one single bedroom, a bathroom with a bath and shower, a fully fitted kitchen with appliances, and a living area with a widescreen TV.

The property has WiFi throughout and comes with a small courtyard garden with outside seating, perfect for al-fresco dining on warm, summer evenings. Barton Cottage comes with free, onsite parking and is a dog-friendly place to stay in Bourton on the Water. Click Barton Cottage to book now.

The beautiful old stone Darly Cottage is located just off station road with plenty of shops, pubs, restaurants, and other amenities a short walk from the property. It comes with four bedrooms; three doubles and one twin and sleeps up to eight people. It’s a great option for larger groups.

The accommodation comes with a pleasant garden and terrace with barbeque facilities to get the most out of the British summertime. For the colder months, there’s a log burner in the living room, and inside is a cozy yet modern space with stylish furnishings.

Nearby attractions include the Station Play Park, Cotswold Clubhouse, and the Hawkstone Brewery. For food, you’ll find Emma’s Bakery Treats, the Bourton Kebab Van (if you fancy something fast), and The Mousetrap Inn all within easy reach by foot.

The property comes with all mod-cons including WiFi throughout, a fully fitted kitchen with appliances, two bathrooms with bath and shower, and is another of the fantastic dog-friendly places to stay in Bourton on the Water. Click here to learn more.

The charming Newbury Cottage is made from the local Cotswolds stone which can be seen inside giving the place plenty of character and a period feel. There’s an open fire in the living room and the ceilings have original wooden beam supports. It’s a really romantic place and a great option for couples visiting Bourton.

The property comes with a large double and a single room, a bathroom with a bath, a breakfast bar, and a large living room with widescreen TV. The kitchen comes complete with modern appliances such as an oven, a microwave, and a fridge-freezer, so cooking at home isn’t a problem.

This is another of the pet-friendly cottages in Bourton on the Water so you’ll be pleased to know you can bring the doggo with you. There are many things to see and do nearby from the Cotswold Motoring and Toy Museum to taking walks along the river and stopping in a local pub like The Old Manse Hotel which is just a few minutes walk away – it serves great food and is also pet-friendly!

Inside the cottage, you’ll find a dishwasher, washing machine, free WiFi throughout, and all you need for a comfortable stay in this incredible Cotswold village. Click here to book now.

The gorgeous three-bedroom Woodbine Cottage is one of the top Bourton on the Water holiday rentals thanks to its stylish yet cozy interior design. The property dates back to the 1900s and is on Lansdowne Road, which connects to the High Street and is within a short walk of all the amenities and attractions Bourton has to offer.

There are three double bedrooms and the cottage sleeps up to six people. There are two bathrooms with a bath and shower making it a great option for families and small groups of friends. You can take advantage of the fully fitted kitchen with everything required for self-catering, but there are also plenty of pubs and restaurants nearby if you want to eat out.

There’s plenty to see and do nearby from splashing around in the River Windrush on summer days to long country walks at any time of year (pack wellies in the winter). The Cotswold Motoring, Toy Museum, and Model Village are within walking distance, as is The Kingsbridge Inn, which is a great place to eat.

Woodbine Cottage comes with all you need for a comfortable stay and is the perfect accommodation in Bourton on the Water Cotswolds for escaping into the beautiful English countryside. Click here to find out more.

Stylish South Winds is one of the best Bourton on the Water holiday cottages and sleeps up to seven people in four bedrooms; three doubles and one single. The property is located on Rissington Road at the south end of the village and has plenty of things to do right on the doorstep.

South Winds comes with a large garden and terrace with barbecue facilities, making it a great option for large groups of friends and families who are looking to self-cater. There’s also a fully fitted kitchen with modern appliances, a washing machine, and everything you need to prepare meals at home.

The picturesque River Windrush is a short walk away and offers a great place to cool off in summer (yes, you can actually paddle and splash about in the river). There are lots of pubs and restaurants nearby such as The Old New Inn and Smiths. Attractions like the Model Village are also within easy reach.

The property comes with WiFi throughout, and there are three bathrooms with walk-in showers and a bath, so this is definitely one of the top holiday lets in Bourton on the Water for families. Click here to book today.

Here are answers to some commonly asked questions about where to stay in Bourton on the Water:

With all the self-catering accommodations in Bourton on the Water, you won’t have a hard time finding the perfect place for your Cotswold getaway. With so many excellent holiday cottage options, Bourton is an excellent base for exploring this beautiful part of the country.

Whether you’re looking for a small, romantic getaway like the charming Newbury Cottage or looking for a larger place for a group of friends or family, like Darly Cottage or South Winds, there’s something to suit everyone in this picture-postcard village. So, what are you waiting for? Book your dream holiday cottage in Bourton today.