After the murder of a Dalit girl in Uttar Pradesh’s Jalaun, it was said on social media that Dalits are not safe in Uttar Pradesh, making the caste color. The video and pictures of this incident are still coming out, where it can be seen that the body of the girl is lying in the middle of the road. They came by bicycle. The girl came back after the BA exam. He was shot in the head at the intersection. The Pulsar riding youth carried out the incident at a distance of 200 meters from the local police station.

Roshni Ahirwar, 20, from Aindha village. A 2nd year undergraduate student at Ratna Paksan University was murdered on Monday (April 17, 2023) at 11:40. People around ran, at that time the youth fled. His sister Sheelam is also in her final year of the same college and used to go with him, but she is not with him this time because of holidays. The relatives have named Raj Ahirwar as the accused, a resident of Jamrehi village of Kadaura police station area.

Acting quickly, the police arrested him and the search for his accomplice is underway. After this massacre, the shopkeeper closed his shop. The student’s cell phone and attendance card were found. Police are receiving details of the call. The SP said that the police have strong evidence. The attackers escaped by clapping their hands. Acting quickly, the UP police formed four teams to arrest the killers.

Now look at how social media is promoting this event. A girl is tragically murdered and the creators of the meeting begin to solve politics by helping The rest of this matter. The editor of a publication called ‘Dalit Times’ wrote, “Atrocities on Dalits have not stopped in UP. A girl student in a Dalit district was shot dead in broad daylight by two youths. who was riding a bicycle in Jalaun, Uttar Pradesh. All this was done when the killer was still ‘Ahirwar ‘, which is the surname of the deceased and his family.

At the same time, the media organization called ‘Molitik’ also gave ethnic color to this incident. He wrote, “22-year-old Dalit girl Roshni Ahirwar was shot dead by two motorcycle thieves while returning from college in Jalaun, UP.” If he tries to collect more information, he will know that the killer of Roshni Ahirwar is Raj Ahirwar. If this is not an attempt to incite riots with the help of casteist thinking then what else can be said?

You can see below that some other media organizations and social media agenda makers are also publishing advertisements about this event. One thing is common in all of them that most of them use the word ‘Ram Rajya’ to mock. Also claimed to be ‘Jungle Raj in Uttar Pradesh’. This is the same group of people, who were involved in crediting them both with Atiq’s murder. Ahmed and his brother Ashraf.

Jalaun police also issued a statement in this matter. Police said Raj and Roshni were in contact for more than a year and their relationship was through social media. Both of them used to meet but because of a quarrel 2 months ago, this girl stopped talking to Raj. Raj tried several times, but the girl did not speak to him. After this, Raj along with his cousins ​​went on a murder spree on a bicycle.

Raj Ahirwar threw away the number plate of the car far from the spot of the accident. When the police officer reached the spot to retrieve the license plate from him, he drew a policeman’s pistol. One shot and tried to escape. In self-defense, the police also shot, then he was injured. Both belong to the same caste, so their families are ready to marry first. Now tell, to what extent is the ‘Dalits are not safe’ propaganda justified on this incident?

Note: This news piece was originally published in lnunews.com and used purely for non-profit/non-commercial purposes exclusively for Human Rights