Skip to main content

What are you looking for?

Job Overview: The casework coordinator provides trauma-informed services to refugees and other qualified immigrants to support a positive resettlement experience and the achievement of client self-sufficiency. The coordinator also manages a team providing resettlement casework services and works closely with clients, colleagues, and external parties to develop service and/or self-sufficiency plans to meet individual client needs and preferences utilizing a broad range of financial, medical, social, vocational, and other services and resources in accordance with client eligibility and program requirements. This position reports to the casework supervisor for Resettlement.

Responsibilities include, but are not limited to:

Coordinate pre-arrival case preparation, which may include case assurance, communication with US ties, and liaising with IRC’s Processing Department at Headquarters for clients.

With support from the casework supervisor, assign cases to caseworkers and ensure timely provision of core services including airport pickups, home visits, school enrollment, and other services as outlined in the R&P and MG program guidelines.

Collaborate with other departments to encourage timely internal and external referrals.

Ensure oversight and monitoring of case files for proper file documentation, including developing appropriate forms, procedures and training for casework staff with casework supervisor.

Ensure reporting requirements are met in compliance with donor and organizational requirements.

Maintain a reduced active caseload of newly arrived clients and ensure all clients receive the full range of services mandated.

Assess and monitor client progress at regular intervals to ensure progress on goals is made and designated resources are maximized, modifying initial services plans and other documents as needed.

Develop local resources for clients and share contact information across programs.

Oversee a team of caseworkers including daily oversight of active caseloads, delegation of work assignments, and coaching. Evaluate and report staff performance.

Support the casework supervisor to cultivate a respectful, supportive, and inclusive environment for team members and clients.

Carry out timely, professional interventions to ensure responsive, appropriate, and client-centered service delivery.

Ensure compliance of self and team with all policies, procedures and protocols of the agency.

May train and lead the activities of volunteers and interns.

Education: Bachelor’s degree in social work or related field of study preferred.

Demonstrated ability to promote an organizational culture that reflects IRC’s core values of service, accountability, integrity, and equality. Ability to lead in a way that recognizes that IRC’s work is best accomplished through the true collaboration of individuals from many cultures with a great variety of skills and perspectives.

Strong relationship building, diplomacy, and networking skills; ability to effectively build internal and external relationships.

Self-starter with excellent problem-solving skills combined with the proven ability to prioritize and manage time effectively.

Attention to detail and accuracy in work product.

Fluent in English, both spoken and written; proficiency in language(s) spoken by client group is desired.

Proficient in Microsoft Office applications (Word, Excel, Outlook); ability to use the internet and other digital tools for data entry, research, and problem-solving purposes.

A combination of standard office environment, remote work, and ‘field’ time within the service delivery area to perform the above outlined responsibilities.

Compensation: Posted pay ranges apply to US-based candidates. Ranges are based on various factors including the labor market, job type, internal equity, and budget. Exact offers are calibrated by work location, individual candidate experience and skills relative to the defined job requirement.

COVID-19 Vaccination Requirement: In accordance with IRC’s duty to provide and maintain a workplace that is free of known hazards and our commitment to safeguard the health of our employees, clients, and communities, IRC requires new hires to furnish proof of vaccination against COVID-19 in order to be considered for any in-office or hybrid positions. All IRC US offices require full vaccination to attend any in-office functions (e.g., meetings, trainings).

Commitment to Diversity and Inclusivity: IRC is committed to building a diverse organization and a climate of inclusivity. We strongly encourage applications from candidates who can demonstrate that they can contribute to this goal.

Equal Opportunity Employer: We are an equal opportunity employer and value diversity at our company. We do not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, color, national origin, sex, gender, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, marital status, veteran status, or disability status. We will ensure that individuals with disabilities are provided reasonable accommodation to participate in the job application or interview process, to perform essential job functions, and to receive other benefits and privileges of employment. Please contact us to request accommodation.

US Benefits: We offer a comprehensive and highly competitive set of benefits. In the US, these include: 10 sick days, 10 US holidays, 20-25 paid time off days (depending on role and tenure), medical insurance starting at $145 per month, dental starting at $7 per month, and vision starting at $5 per month, FSA for healthcare, childcare, and commuter costs, a 403b retirement savings plans with up to 4.5% immediately vested matching contribution, plus a 3-7% base IRC contribution (3 year vesting), disability & life insurance, and an Employee Assistance Program which is available to our staff and their families to support counseling and care in times of crisis and mental health struggles.

Please apply on our website: