The lightweight layer which has a place in pretty much every wardrobe around the world; we would hazard to say that the humble T-Shirt is about as staple an item as you can get. Following the chills of winter, this is the time when t-shirts really come into their own. Warmer weathers require comfy layers with breathable qualities, and that’s exactly what you can find in our vast range of spring-suited tees. The brands we stock are a dead giveaway for quality from the off, and we’ve collated picks from some of our favourites to equip you with the ideal seasonal tee.

Following a recent slew of ?exclusive releases with Columbia, we thought it only right to include the label in this list. It is, of course, one of the most well-known outdoor brands on the market, with its appeal seeping into streetwear for a long time now. The Columbia Cavalry T-Shirt perfectly merges that spring feeling with premium materials, sporting a nature themed graphic on the reverse that emulates the ideal seasonal setting. Lovely stuff.

On those mornings when you wake up to sunny skies and mild temperatures, you’ll find yourself reaching for the Carhartt WIP Pocket T-Shirt. A minimal pick with a single pocket and square label, this no-fuss piece is crafted with cotton for a ventilated fit and is easy to pair with shorts or trousers of your choosing – weather dependant, of course.

Nike ACG’s reputation for well-made clothing applies down to its tees, with a whole host of spring-suited picks that fare well in a range of outdoor settings. One such piece is the Lungs T-Shirt, available in a variety of colourways and sporting a classic logo at the chest for a look that’s versatile enough to see you through the spring months and beyond. Plus, it feels fresh to wear thanks to a breezy cotton-poly blend.

The weather is good, the flowers come out, and so do the Nike tees. The Basketball Dunk T-Shirt celebrates both the emerging florals of the season and the hoops culture synonymous with the label, with a large back graphic which pays homage to both. Add this to cotton fabrics which prioritise comfiness, and you’ve got the ideal springtime t-shirt.

You can shop all of the above plus plenty more on our site, with 20% off for Emergency Services and Students for a short time only. T&Cs apply.