Bighorn Airways is expanding our flight ops department. We are seeking a high quality aviation professional to serve as the Charter Pilot. The successful candidate will be primarily responsible for daily flying duties in our King Air 350.

Additional duties will consist of assisting the Chief Pilot with administrative duties. Bighorn Airways offers excellent pay, comprehensive health, dental, vision, and life insurance, as well as supplemental insurance, paid vacation, sick time and holidays. We also value our employees and reward dedication, providing a career path for those with the knowledge and desire to push themselves and improve our operations.

Our location in Sheridan, WY provides a high quality of life, great schools, and no state income tax. Located at the base of the Bighorn Mountains, there are countless options for those who enjoy outdoor recreation.  Sheridan also has a surprising number of cultural options for a town of its size, including stage productions, concerts, festivals, museums, and even polo. One week each July the town is taken over by the WYO rodeo, with a variety of activities, parades and nightly rodeo performances. There are also numerous sports and activities for both children and adults, including soccer and ice hockey leagues, and summer programs for kids. Close-by communities where some of Bighorn employees live include Dayton, Ranchester, Parkman, Big Horn, Story, and Buffalo. All offer small-town living and have their own list of activities each year.

Company Summary:

Bighorn Airways is a diverse aviation company which includes operating a fleet of aircraft on US government contracts for smoke jumping and para cargo operations in Alaska and the lower 48 as well as over seas. BHA also conducts agricultural operations, helicopter ops, and is a DOD approved air carrier. Bighorn Airways has been a leader in the aviation community in Wyoming and the Inter-mountain West for over 60 years.

Preferred: experience in King Air, preferably type rated in a King Air 350; experience with ProLine 21

Must be willing to relocate to the Sheridan area.

Please reference Avjobs when applying for this position.

Bighorn Airways is always looking for quality employees.    Bighorn Airways, Inc. is a diversified aviation services business headquartered in Sheridan, WY. Bighorn Airways has been in business at our current location for over fifty years. Bighorn Airways provides a variety of aviation services including on-demand aircraft and helicopter charter, aerial spraying, fuel service, maintenance, avionics service, and contract services.    Bighorn Airways, Inc. specializes in special mission aircraft and operations. For over 25 years we have been performing challenging missions in harsh environments all across the North American continent.    Bighorn Airways, Inc. has a very distinct operations and management philosophy that sets us apart with our customers. We are focused on mission performance, reliability and customer satisfaction. We will go above and beyond to make sure our customers are getting safe and reliable aviation solutions. Our commitment to this standard shows in our continuous reinvestment in our aircraft fleet and training our flight crews and technical personnel to the highest standards.