After months of soft launch pictures and teased videos, Ella May Ding has finally gone Instagram official with her boyfriend with a hard launch like no other.

Ella shared a photo of her and her new beau following a carousel of photos of food at Il Bacaro in Australia. She captioned the post: “Beautiful dinner at Il Bacaro. You’ll want to see the last photo.”

The former Married at First Sight Australia bride had posted photos of her boyfriend before but his face was often cut out or turned away.

Ella hasn’t revealed any more details about her new boyfriend but it has been widely reported his name is Guy Palermo.

A source previously told Daily Mail Australia Ella has known her new boyfriend for several years and he prefers to live a more private life.

“Her boyfriend is very lowkey, no one knows who he is. They’ve known each other for six years and he has been pursuing her in that time. Love was right in front of them the whole time,” the source said.

In October 2022, Ella confirmed she had broken up with Made in Chelsea star Miles Nazaire. Ella told Daily Mail Australia their split came after they failed “to form a lasting connection” but insists there is no “bad blood” between the two.

“Made in Chelsea was pretty crazy. The show was intense. It was probably harder than MAFS. It’s such a short period of time. I didn’t find love,” she explained.

Before appearing on MiC, Ella was on Married at First Sight Australia in 2021. She was paired with Mitchell Eynaud during the experiment but their relationship didn’t last beyond filming.

Despite this, Ella remains grateful for the opportunities the show has given her as well as allowing her to meet her best friend, Domenica Calarco.

For all the latest Married at First Sight Australia news and gossip and for the best memes and quizzes, like The Holy Church of Love Island on Facebook.

• Here’s everything our wholesome king Duncan has been up to since MAFS Australia

• Post-show kisses and shady comments: Are MAFS Australia’s Alyssa and Duncan still together?

• Who is Alessandra Rampolla? The super glam intimacy expert on MAFS Australia