The automaker from Japan which has recently updated its ever-popular ‘City’ sedan is also working on enhancements on the Amaze. This compact sedan which scores heavily on space and safety is jacked up to receive a generation update in 2024. Honda plans to unveil the next-generation Amaze with a slew of upgrades next year. What could the 9 lakh Honda car get? Read below.

The new generation Amaze is likely to use the updated version of the PF2 platform which is also expected in the new mid-size SUV. However, the Amaze being a compact sedan its length would measure less than 4 metres. Talking about the design, the new generation could get adaptations from the City facelift. The evident chrome element on the grille along with some signature touches could be seen on the car.

Honda has plans to initially launch the new generation Amaze in the overseas market. Therefore we could see many premium touches now with an updated interior layout. There are reports about the new floating setup for the touchscreen which resembles other Honda sedans. Other features might include a premium sound system, automatic AC, powered mirrors, leatherette upholstery and many other features.

The engine option on this Honda is likely to remain the same with the 1.2-litre petrol engine. No diesel would be on offer making it a petrol-only model. The 1.2-litre mill makes 89bhp and 110nm of torque would be on offer mated to a 5-speed manual or a CVT gearbox. Moreover, the question of it getting a factory-fitted CNG option is on the fence.

https://motoroctane.com/news/249901-maruti-swift-design

The launch of this new sedan is expected in the second half of 2024. Once launched, the car would go against rivals like Tata Tigor and Hyundai Aura. There are also talks about the new generation update of the Maruti Dzire with strong hybrid options. Hence, it would be worth waiting how these new-gen cars stand against each other.

If you have car-buying doubts click here to ask! Get the lowest price for car insurance here. For more such content stay subscribed to MotorOctane Youtube, Google News Facebook, and Twitter. Also, follow us on Flipboard and Reddit where we have a discussion community.