Relocating to Australia for work or returning home from an American assignment just got tougher, advises Air Animal Pet Movers. “Plan ahead at least seven months because the new pet identity declarations have expanded the timeline,” said Walter M. Woolf, VMD, Air Animal CEO and founding veterinarian.

The new rules require two pet identity declarations by two different U. S. Department of Agriculture-accredited veterinarians. Those declarations have to be sent to the USDA electronically. Then the USDA provides the pet identity declaration certificate. “Not all veterinarians are USDA-accredited. Setting up two veterinary appointments for a pet at the start of the process can be tough without guidance from the pet’s regular veterinarian or an experienced pet shipper.

“We’ve updated our Australia Resource page at airanimal.com to help people understand the 18 steps and how the process has to proceed,” Woolf said.

From the Air Animal Australia Resource page

1. Microchip the pet (if not previously microchipped).

2. Verify the rabies vaccinations.

3. Arrange two required identity pet examination/declarations by two different USDA-accredited veterinarians and obtain an identity declaration certificate.

4. Schedule a FAVN-OIE Rabies Antibody blood draw by a USDA-accredited veterinarian.

5. Schedule antigen tests for Leishmania, Brucella Canis and Leptospirosis (dogs only).

6. Submit the blood serums to an approved government laboratory.

7. Arrange for a USDA RNATT declaration by a USDA-accredited veterinarian.

8. Fulfill the requirements of the 180-day waiting period that follows step #7.

9. Secure a DAFF import permit which can take more than four months.

10. Book quarantine space in Melbourne, Australia. Pets that complete all Australian identity check steps, and pet parents who can prove their pets originated in Australia, are eligible for 10 days quarantine. All others will spend 30 days in quarantine.

11. Arrange for the approved external and internal parasite treatments.

12. Arrange a veterinary exam to apply for an international pet health certificate.

13. Obtain USDA endorsement and all Australian health documents.

14. Book a USA cross-country flight (if necessary).

15. Book Los Angeles transfer (if necessary).

16. Schedule the trans-Pacific flight.

17. Obtain an airline air cargo air waybill and check pet in for the international flight.

18. Pick up pet after quarantine or arrange for pick-up and residential delivery by an experienced pet transporter.

“Pet parents should always register with a local veterinarian in their new locale to keep their pets’ rabies vaccinations up to date. Veterinarians typically send reminder notices when vaccinations are due. If another move is in their future, they will be ready,” Woolf added.

Air Animal has helped more than 55,000 families move their 135,000 furry, feathered and scaly pets around the globe since 1977. They welcome pet move authorizations and referrals from major corporations, relocation management agencies, household goods movers, veterinarians, families, U. S. military and government transferees. Get the best in animal care and transportation. Air Animal is an appointed and endorsed IATA air cargo sales agency working with all airlines that move animals. They are an Indirect Air Carrier cleared for tendering live animals to airlines by the U.S. Transportation Security Administration. See airanimal.com to learn more about Pet Moving Made Easy®.