A 26-year-old, 28 weeks pregnant Asian woman underwent ultrasound examinations. The physician who performed the final examination informed the woman that the fetus had a lethal brain malformation. Birth was then induced prematurely not only in accordance with the mother’s wishes, but also because it was considered to give the child a better prognosis. After birth, the child’s condition improved much more positively than anticipated. The woman, however, strongly expressed that she wanted treatment to be withheld.  As she verbalized it was her cultural belief not to tamper with life. The physician thought this was unethical. He felt he had a duty to save the life of the child. All the people involved experienced great difficulty in communicating with the mother. In this case the discussion concluded that the absolute and pessimistic (negatively) content of information given to the woman before birth could have induced or strengthened her feeling of hopelessness and rejection of the baby. If the ultrasound findings had been presented with reservation reflecting the uncertainty which always is associated with this kind of information, the mother might more easily have accepted treatment of her child. The prognosis of the child seemed to be so good, it would have been wrong not to treat the child actively.

This case is brought to the ethic committee:

1.     Does the mother have the right not to treat the child?

The mother has the right to not treat the child, however, it makes her ethical decisions seem questionable, especially considering that the child despite not having a great prognosis has been improving very positively.

2.     How can the health care team support this mother?

Are there any holistic alternatives? Besides surgical treatment is there any supplement that can be given to help with the formation of the baby, maybe slow but may work? Educate the mother that treatment would be necessary for the baby to seek life. Treatment wouldn’t be interfering with life more so promoting it is just like vaccinating a child or giving a child a healthy diet and lifestyle. Education would be key. A good option would be speaking with someone of high power in the religion to give a consultation. Are there any loops? Would the “higher up” be able to consult the mother with the staff as to why she has these beliefs?

3.     Who will be involved on the ethics committee and what will be their role in supporting this mother

The ethics committee on this case includes the pediatrician, OB, nurse, social worker, psychiatrist, nurse manager, and a lawyer. They’re there to help educate and guide the mother so that she can make the decision that’s best for her and her child. It’s clear in this scenario that miscommunication has played a big role in influencing decisions. Opening up the conversation and making all options clear is vital. A member of her family or religious group may also be there to support the mother when making her decisions.

4.     How might cultural and religious influence this mother’s decision

Cultural and religious influence have a huge impact/effect on the mother’s decision seeing as she believes and stated that she had a cultural belief to not tamper with life and wanted treatment to be withheld even though the physician found this unethical and proceeded to make the decision to save the child from a lethal brain malformation. But it does state that “birth was then induced prematurely not only in accordance with the mothers wishes “but then vocalized afterwards that it went against her cultural belief.

5.     What support from the interprofessional team will be needed?

There will need to be a combined effort from a social worker, providers, nurses, and the family to decide what the best course of action is for the child. If anything, they could possibly look into adoption for the child if the child begins to heal well and the mother does not seem to be in the right place to take care of her child and make the best decisions for the child going forward.

6.     How could interprofessional teamwork ensure that the patient is the center of care delivery?

Interprofessional teamwork ensures that the patient is the center of care delivery because it allows multiple people to focus on which plan of action would be best for them. The collaboration of minds allows proper communication about observations made about the client and relieves pressure so that clear minds can make clear decisions. Each member of the team has different responsibilities that correlate with the patient, so communicating the various needs can help differentiate which would be best for the individual.

How will you apply the knowledge you obtained from this simulation to your nursing practice?

Place an Order

We do custom work 100% original and plagiarism free .If you need help in any assignment just send us requirements with time limit ,we will quote a price and after your confirmation ,we start working on your assignment. An original work ready for submission provided to you

Name*

First

Last

Email*

Description**

Attachment

Drop files here or

CommentsThis field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.

Δ