The BMW XM revealed in September marked 50 years of the BMW M Division. Although an incredibly powerful and impressive SUV, the M team took one look at it and collectively thought, “We can do better,” and they have. The new 2024 BMW XM Label Red takes power to an insane level while adding sinister styling that will grab your attention and never let go.

The new XM Label Red is the most powerful BMW M Division model ever created, and a hybrid SUV. This high-powered SUV receives power from an intense 4.4-liter twin-turbocharged V8 engine and a single electric motor integrated with the transmission. This means 738 horsepower and 738 lb-ft of torque are sent to all four wheels via an incredible 8-speed automatic transmission.

When you want to experience real speed in a top-tier luxury SUV, this is the one to drive. This BMW SUV hits 60 mph in 3.7 seconds on its way to an electronically limited top speed of 155 mph. If you opt for the M Driver’s package, that top speed increases to 175 mph giving you even more excitement during your drive.

To control big power, you need the right performance gear. The 2024 BMW XM Label Red comes standard with a slew of performance parts. Car and Driver tells us this SUV includes:

If you think the 23-inch wheels are too big, BMW allows you to swap them for a set of 22s for free.

The BMW XM Label Red is a plug-in hybrid SUV, which means it has an electric-only range. Of course, this range and power are a far cry from the excitement of full power. Using only the electric motor, you’ll have 194 horsepower and up to 30 miles of all-electric driving range. That won’t blow you away, but it’s enough to get you around town.

The BMW XM is a massive SUV and only the second vehicle entirely developed and produced by the BMW M Division. The Label Red trim packs a serious style punch. You’ll see red rings around the kidney grille openings, a red stripe along each side, and red accents for the wheels.

Once inside, you’ll see red stitching on all leather-covered areas, red headrests, and red accents in the HVAC ports. A large, curved glass panel dominates the dashboard area. This panel houses the 12.3-inch digital gauge cluster and a 14.9-inch touchscreen under this panel.

This new high-performance hybrid BMW SUV makes its formal debut at the 2023 Shanghai Auto Show this week. BMW puts this SUV into production in August. This amazing, high-powered SUV is being built at the BMW Group’s plant in Spartanburg, South Carolina, and should be available in the fall as a 2024 model-year vehicle.

Will the BMW XM Label Red make it into your driveway?

The post Roll Out the Red Carpet: The 2024 BMW XM Label Red Is Here appeared first on MotorBiscuit.

Read the original article from MotorBiscuit