We've detected you are on Internet Explorer. For the best Barrons.com experience, please update to a modern browser.

We've detected you are on Internet Explorer. For the best Barrons.com experience, please update to a modern browser.

This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. To order presentation-ready copies for distribution to your colleagues, clients or customers visit http://www.djreprints.com.

German transport union EVG on Wednesday called for a strike as workers demand higher wages to cope with high rates of inflation, the latest industrial action in Europe's largest economy. Rail workers across the country will walk out on Friday between 3:00 am (0100 GMT) and 11:00 am, the EVG said in a statement.

Management "alone" were responsible for the new strike action for failing to engage in "constructive" wage negotiations, EVG's deputy chairwoman Cosima Ingenschay said in the statement. The union represents 230,000 workers across some 50 transport companies, including national rail operator Deutsche Bahn. EVG is demanding a 12-percent pay rise for the workers it represents. The increase would help employees cope with "financial burdens that have increased sharply", EVG said. Inflation in Germany stood at 7.4 percent in March, remaining very elevated despite having fallen from a peak of 8.8 percent in October. The strong increases in consumer prices has been driven by rising costs of energy in the wake of the Russian invasion of Ukraine at the beginning of 2022. The rail system was largely brought to a halt in a major strike at the end of March led by EVG and Germany's second largest union Verdi. Verdi on Tuesday called for employees working in security at the airports on Duesseldorf, Cologne-Bonn and Hamburg to strike through Thursday and Friday.

The Barron's news department was not involved in the creation of the content above. This story was produced by AFP. For more information go to AFP.com.

© Agence France-Presse

German transport union EVG on Wednesday called for a strike as workers demand higher wages to cope with high rates of inflation, the latest industrial action in Europe's largest economy.

An error has occurred, please try again later.

This article has been sent to