Middle infielders are dropping like flies so if you're here looking for a replacement, take solace in knowing you are not alone. In the past week we've lost stalwarts like Corey Seager, Tim Anderson, and Oneil Cruz to multi-week injuries. Throw in Orlando Arcia, who was the headliner in this article last week, and tons of fantasy managers are turning to the waiver wire for help.

Look no further. We've got a fresh batch of names below who could help fill the void left by all the players going on the injured list.

As a reminder, we'll be looking at pickups for shallow leagues (30-49% rostered) and deeper formats (10-29%), as well as highlighting players in the single digits who deserve a spot on your watch list at the very least. These are your second base and shortstop fantasy baseball waiver wire pickups for Week 4 – April 17 through April 23.

Get any full-season MLB and DFS Premium Pass . Exclusive access to our Team Sync platform, Premium articles, daily Matchup Rating projections, 15 lineup tools, DFS cheat sheets, Research Stations, Lineup Optimizers and much more!

Sign Up Now!

The Diamondbacks are one of the most surprising teams in the early portion of the season and Josh Rojas is a huge reason why. The 28-year-old has been batting first or second for a potent Arizona lineup and is slashing .395/.429/.526 through his first 11 games. Obviously, Rojas can't be expected to keep his elite .955 OPS all season long, but he's always been capable of getting on base and will score plenty of runs as the table-setter for the D-Backs.

Brice Turang has cooled off after a potent first week of the season, but he's still worth a look in fantasy as other middle infielders continue to struggle and/or go on the IL. Turang swiped 34 bags in Triple-A last season and his elite speed will continue to play up in the Big Leagues given the new rules for baserunners. If you're hitting the waiver wire for speed, Turang remains a strong option.

Edouard Julien got the call to the Majors for the Twins and immediately made an impact on Thursday at the Yankees where he led off and went 2-for-5 including his first-career homer. He's gone 0-fer since then, but this is an intriguing prospect who could have mixed-league value if he continues to leadoff for Minnesota.

As mentioned above with Rojas, the Diamondbacks are off to a hot start and are getting surprising performances from relatively unknown players, such as Geraldo Perdomo. Through 10 games played, Perdomo is batting .409 with eight runs and eight RBI, making him an intriguing deep-league option. The issue is, he tends to only play versus righties despite being a switch-hitter. Perdomo has a ton of value in daily-lineup leagues where you can start him in fantasy only when he's in the lineup for Arizona.

Speaking of top prospects, the Angels are calling up Zach Neto directly from Double-A, making him the first 2022 draft pick to play a Major League game when he took the field Saturday in Boston. It's always risky to put too much faith in 22-year-olds who didn't play at Triple-A, but Neto is a name fantasy managers need to be aware of as he destroyed the minors in his 44 career games as a pro. Per Jeff Passan:

Like what you see? Download our updated fantasy baseball app for iPhone and Android with 24x7 player news, injury alerts, sleepers, prospects & more. All free!