Business First Bancshares (NASDAQ:BFST – Get Rating) and Citizens Financial Services (NASDAQ:CZFS – Get Rating) are both small-cap finance companies, but which is the superior investment? We will compare the two companies based on the strength of their valuation, institutional ownership, dividends, earnings, profitability, analyst recommendations and risk.

30.4% of Business First Bancshares shares are owned by institutional investors. Comparatively, 6.1% of Citizens Financial Services shares are owned by institutional investors. 7.0% of Business First Bancshares shares are owned by insiders. Comparatively, 6.3% of Citizens Financial Services shares are owned by insiders. Strong institutional ownership is an indication that large money managers, endowments and hedge funds believe a stock will outperform the market over the long term.

This table compares Business First Bancshares and Citizens Financial Services’ top-line revenue, earnings per share (EPS) and valuation.

Business First Bancshares has higher revenue and earnings than Citizens Financial Services. Business First Bancshares is trading at a lower price-to-earnings ratio than Citizens Financial Services, indicating that it is currently the more affordable of the two stocks.

This is a breakdown of recent ratings and target prices for Business First Bancshares and Citizens Financial Services, as provided by MarketBeat.

Business First Bancshares presently has a consensus target price of $28.33, indicating a potential upside of 80.24%. Given Business First Bancshares’  higher possible upside, research analysts plainly believe Business First Bancshares is more favorable than Citizens Financial Services.

This table compares Business First Bancshares and Citizens Financial Services’ net margins, return on equity and return on assets.

Business First Bancshares pays an annual dividend of $0.48 per share and has a dividend yield of 3.1%. Citizens Financial Services pays an annual dividend of $1.94 per share and has a dividend yield of 2.2%. Business First Bancshares pays out 20.9% of its earnings in the form of a dividend. Citizens Financial Services pays out 26.5% of its earnings in the form of a dividend. Both companies have healthy payout ratios and should be able to cover their dividend payments with earnings for the next several years. Citizens Financial Services has raised its dividend for 3 consecutive years. Business First Bancshares is clearly the better dividend stock, given its higher yield and lower payout ratio.

Business First Bancshares has a beta of 0.78, suggesting that its share price is 22% less volatile than the S&P 500. Comparatively, Citizens Financial Services has a beta of 0.28, suggesting that its share price is 72% less volatile than the S&P 500.

Business First Bancshares beats Citizens Financial Services on 9 of the 17 factors compared between the two stocks.

Business First Bancshares, Inc. is a financial holding company, which engages in the provision of banking products and services through its subsidiary. It also offers commercial and personal banking, treasury management, and wealth solutions services. The company was founded on July 20, 2006 and is headquartered in Baton Rouge, LA.

Citizens Financial Services, Inc. is a holding company, which operates as a community bank. The company was founded on July 12, 1983 and is headquartered in Mansfield, PA.

Receive News & Ratings for Business First Bancshares Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Business First Bancshares and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter.