By all appearances, Daniel Snyder and the Washington Commanders have found a new majority owner, with the Josh Harris group submitting a $6.05 billion bid to purchase the team. Only, there have also since been reports that Snyder views the final price as a “little disappointing,” per the Washington Post.

Signs point to Jeff Bezos being done with the bidding process, with the Amazon founder viewed as unlikely to get involved now.

Yet, another source from WUSA9 indicates another offer could still be in play. According to Darren Haynes, Bank of America — the financial institution handling the sale of the Commanders, is still communicating with “at least one of the other bidders.”

This bid was reportedly submitted by D. C. native Brian Davis, which is noted to be a $7 billion cash offer. Obviously, this is well north of the reported $6 billion figure. Plus, one would think a $7B bid would no longer be viewed as anything near “disappointing.”

Davis reportedly can pay the first billion dollars to Snyder within 24 hours while coming up with the rest of the $6 billion “within seven days.” Another nugget, Davis is even willing to “indemnify Dan Snyder”, which means he’s willing to accept any legal liability related to the ongoing investigation into the organization. This was a great concern in the past, with Snyder reportedly seeking such a clause.

Related: NFL insider suggests Washington Commanders won’t consider a Round 1 QB, with Sam Howell taking over

So, who is Brian Davis? Many sports fans are already familiar with the former Duke basketball player, who went on to play 68 NBA games with the Minnesota Timberwolves in 1993. But he’s built his wealth by becoming owner of Urban Echo Energy LLC, which develops renewable energy assets.

He’s even been involved in sports ownership in the past, having been a minority owner of the MLS soccer team D. C. United. While there are still several hurdles to clear for Davis, should he become the Commanders’ team owner, he’d make history as the first Black NFL team owner in the league. In other words, the pending sale of the Commanders seems far from over with a new contender in the ring.