On Saturday, Kejriwal said he will appear before the CBI and asserted that if he was “corrupt” then no one in the world was “honest”. The Delhi Chief Minister also said he will sue the CBI and ED officials for alleged perjury and filing false affidavits in courts.

“We will file appropriate cases against CBI and ED officials for perjury and producing false evidence in courts,” he tweeted.

Punjab Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann and some of his cabinet colleagues and party MLAs are expected to accompany AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal to the CBI headquarters in Delhi today, party sources said.

After the CBI summons on Friday, Mann had said that it was very difficult to suppress Kejriwal’s voice. “We are standing with him like a rock,” he had said.

“It is very difficult to suppress the voice of Arvind Kejriwal ji. Those who speak the truth make place in the people’s hearts. No one can delete anyone from the hearts of the people. We are standing with him like a rock..,” Mann had tweeted in Hindi.

The AAP has alleged that the party is being targeted for raising its voice against corruption. After Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia was recently jailed and with former home minister Satyendar Jain already behind bars, the AAP is concerned that this questioning could be a prelude to Arvind Kejriwal’s potential arrest in the near future.

“This incident is unprecedented. And this should be discussed in the assembly. We will have views of all MLAs who are representing various constituencies in Delhi and know their perspective about this issue in the upcoming session,” AAP national spokesperson and Cabinet Minister Saurabh Bharadwaj said earlier in the day.

Meanwhile, activists of the AAP will hold a protest against the BJP-led central government in Amritsar today.

Punjab Assembly speaker Kultar Singh Sandhwan called Kejriwal as the “hero of honest politics” who follows Babasaheb B R Ambedkar. “Threatening Arvind Kejriwal through CBI summons cannot stop the revolutionary steps being taken in the field of health and education,” he said in a statement.

The Delhi government has called a special session of the assembly on Monday and it is likely to discuss CBI’s notice to Kejriwal. The second part of the Budget Session will commence in the Assembly Hall at 11.00 am on Monday, according to official notification.

After Rahul Gandhi’s disqualification as MP last month, the CBI summons to Delhi Chief Minister has became the fresh rallying point for opposition parties ahead of 2024 Lok Sabha elections. Several opposition leaders expressed solidarity with Kejriwal after he was summoned by the CBI.

Congress president Mallikarjun Kharge also dialled Kejriwal on Friday evening, extending his solidarity with the AAP leader and called for like-minded parties to unite on a common platform to defeat the BJP in the next general elections.

Sources said the opposition leaders are going to take this issue forward in a bid to unite strongly against the BJP.

Kharge, who has been reaching out to leaders of opposition parties, will be hosting a meeting of senior leaders of various parties in the next few days and chalk out a common programme.

A day after summons was issued to Kejriwal, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar said his Delhi counterpart will reply to “all the actions” initiated against him at an “appropriate time”.

“This is the reason that we are making efforts to unite more and more parties in the country against the BJP-led central government. We will make all efforts and work unitedly,” he said.

The Bihar chief minister met Kejriwal in Delhi on Wednesday.

Rajya Sabha member Kapil Sibal also hit out at the BJP over the CBI summoning Kejriwal, alleging that the ruling party wants to establish an “Opposition-free India” and is seeking to “malign” the image of leaders who stand up against it.

Sibal urged all Opposition parties to speak up in one voice against this “misuse” of probe agencies and asserted that it will be difficult to take on the BJP until all such parties stand together.

Kejriwal also wrote to his Tamil Nadu counterpart M K Stalin, saying democracy in India is being dealt blows every single day and the country’s federal structure is in grave danger.

Responding to a letter from Stalin, Kejriwal also noted that “every tenet” of the India’s Constitution stands compromised, be it liberty, equality, secularism, or fraternity.

Read all the Latest India News here