The Federal Government has challenged the presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Peter Obi, to clarify his position on a leaked audio of the conversation he allegedly had with a prominent Nigerian cleric. The audio clip as released by an online newspaper was an alleged conversation between Obi and the founder of Living Faith Church…

The Federal Government has challenged the presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Peter Obi, to clarify his position on a leaked audio of the conversation he allegedly had with a prominent Nigerian cleric.

The audio clip as released by an online newspaper was an alleged conversation between Obi and the founder of Living Faith Church Worldwide, Bishop David Oyedepo.

Addressing the media on Monday in London, the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, said Obi should clarify what he meant by saying the leaked conversation was “a fake doctored audio call.”

“I need to draw the attention of Nigerians to the recent leaked audio of conversation between the presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Peter Obi, and the cleric.

“The leaked audio rattled Nigerians because we heard Obi pleading with the cleric to interfere on his behalf to convince Christians that this is a religious war and they should support him,” he said.

The minister said that in the aftermath of the leaked audio, Obi came out to say that it was “a fake, doctored audio call.”

The minister said: ” If it is fake, it means it never took place. But if it is doctored, it means there was that conversation but it was manipulated.

“Obi needs to come out and make the clarification on whether the conversation did not take place or it took place, but it was doctored.

“If it was doctored, which part of it was doctored?

“Is it  the beginning, the middle or the end or is it the ‘Yes Daddy’ part of it, or where he said it was a religious war?”

Mohammed said the leaked audio had corroborated the position that Obi’s electioneering campaign was based on religion and ethnicity.

He said this was the first time in the history of Nigeria’s elections that a politician would come out openly to campaign on grounds of religion and ethnicity.

“From the outcome of the presidential elections, you will see that Obi got his vote mostly from areas where he comes from and his religious leaning.

“This is not good for the politics of Nigeria and it is very dangerous.

“As a result of this kind of campaign, Nigeria is more divided than ever and people are being heard commenting either based on their religious position or ethnic origin.

“Many otherwise respected commentators are not left behind on the effect of this divisive politics,”  he said.

Speaking on his mission to London, the minister said it was to defend the legitimacy of the just concluded  general elections and to correct the imbalance in the skewed narrative which had pervaded the air on the polls

He said, like what he did recently in Washington, he would let the world know that the 2023 election was the freest in Nigeria’s history.

NAN reports that the minister is scheduled to hold conversations and meetings with international media organisations and relevant think tanks based in London.

The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Lagos State and its Governorship Candidate, Dr Abdul-Azeez Adediran (Jandor) have submitted a petition before the Governorship Election Petition Tribunal of Lagos State. The party and Adediran are calling for the disqualification of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Labour Party (LP) candidates in the election for non-compliance with…

APC asks tribunal to dismiss petition by Peter Obi, LP against Tinubu victory

The All Progressives Congress (APC), on Monday, prayed the Presidential Election Petition Court (PEPC) in Abuja to dismiss the petition filed by the Labour Party (LP) and its Presidential Candidate, Mr Peter Obi, against the emergence of Sen. Bola Tinubu as president-elect in the Feb. 25 election. The APC, the 4th respondent, urged the PEPC…

The Federal Government has challenged the presidential candidate of the Labour Party, Peter Obi, to clarify his position on a leaked audio of the conversation he allegedly had with a prominent Nigerian cleric. The audio clip as released by an online newspaper was an alleged conversation between Obi and the founder of Living Faith Church…

APC integrity group insist on zoning of the Senate Presidency seat to North West zone

The APC Integrity Caucus(AIC), has canvassed the zoning of the seat of the Senate President to the northwest geopolitical zone.

As the race for the leadership of the National Assembly gathers steam, Governor Atiku Bagudu led the progressives governors forum (PGF) may settle for Senator Osita Izunaso as their preferred choice for the exalted seat of the Senate President. The move by the governors has been widely endorsed by virtually all the former Senate Presidents…

Last year, some leaders of thought advocated for military rule in Nigeria, apparently due to a sense of frustration with the seeming collapse of civilian authority. Nigerians flatly rejected that call without apology.

Before embarking on the next census controversy

Against all odds, the National Population Commission said it is ready to conduct a national headcount from May 3, 2023, after the commencement date was shifted from March 29, following shifts also of the conduct of the governorship election nationwide.

Following a resurgence of insecurity in the country, Nigerians have been charged to pray and take action to fashion out the Nigeria of their dreams, as preparations to usher in the newly elected leaders next month reaches crescendo.

Broadcasting Organisation of Nigeria (BON) has petitioned Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, complaining of alleged high-handedness in the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) imposition of N5 million fine on Channels TV for supposed tolerance of treasonable outburst of a guest.

The acting chairman of the Labour Party (LP), Lamidi Apapa, has denied allegations that he was planted to run down the party. Apapa insisted that he is the acting national chairman of the LP and enjoys the support of the party’s presidential candidate, Peter Obi, and his followers known as “Obidients”. “As of today, I…

Igbo apex cultural group, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, has felicitated with Ndigbo worldwide, wishing them the peace that comes with Christ's glorious resurrection through the power of the risen Messiah.