Sidus Space (NASDAQ:SIDU – Get Rating) is one of 28 publicly-traded companies in the “Radiotelephone communication” industry, but how does it compare to its peers? We will compare Sidus Space to similar companies based on the strength of its analyst recommendations, dividends, profitability, risk, institutional ownership, earnings and valuation.

Sidus Space has a beta of -1.51, indicating that its share price is 251% less volatile than the S&P 500. Comparatively, Sidus Space’s peers have a beta of 5.26, indicating that their average share price is 426% more volatile than the S&P 500.

This is a summary of recent recommendations for Sidus Space and its peers, as provided by MarketBeat.

As a group, “Radiotelephone communication” companies have a potential upside of 58.91%. Given Sidus Space’s peers  higher probable upside, analysts clearly believe Sidus Space has less favorable growth aspects than its peers.

This table compares Sidus Space and its peers’ net margins, return on equity and return on assets.

This table compares Sidus Space and its peers revenue, earnings per share and valuation.

Sidus Space’s peers have higher revenue and earnings than Sidus Space. Sidus Space is trading at a lower price-to-earnings ratio than its peers, indicating that it is currently more affordable than other companies in its industry.

3.2% of Sidus Space shares are owned by institutional investors. Comparatively, 20.5% of shares of all “Radiotelephone communication” companies are owned by institutional investors. 55.6% of Sidus Space shares are owned by company insiders. Comparatively, 6.0% of shares of all “Radiotelephone communication” companies are owned by company insiders. Strong institutional ownership is an indication that hedge funds, endowments and large money managers believe a company will outperform the market over the long term.

Sidus Space peers beat Sidus Space on 10 of the 13 factors compared.

Sidus Space, Inc., a space-as-a-service company, engages in the design, manufacture, launch, and data collection of commercial satellite worldwide. Its services include satellite manufacturing; precision manufacturing, assembly, and test; low earth orbit microsatellite; payload integrations; launch and support services; space-based data services and analytics; precision computer numerical control machining and fabrication; Swiss screw machining; wire cable harness fabrication; 3D composite and metal printing; and satellite deployment and microgravity testing and research services, as well as services related to electrical and electronic assemblies. The company also offers hardware solutions consisting of an external flight test platform to develop, test, and fly experiments, as well as delivers hardware, materials, and advanced electronics on the international space station; and space station integrated kinetic launcher for orbital payload systems. It serves commercial space, aerospace, defense, underwater marine, and other commercial and government customers. The company was founded in 2014 and is headquartered in Merritt Island, Florida. Sidus Space, Inc. is a subsidiary of Craig Technical Consulting, Inc.

Receive News & Ratings for Sidus Space Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Sidus Space and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter.