Example video title will go here for this video

Example video title will go here for this video

Meningitis is inflammation of the membranes surrounding the brain and spinal cord. Meningitis infection is contagious and can require hospitalization.

According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), bacterial meningitis is the most contagious and most serious type of meningitis.

Meningitis is inflammation of the membranes surrounding the brain and spinal cord that causes swelling. If left untreated, it can be deadly.

The CDC said meningitis can occur from bacteria, viruses (not as severe), fungus, amoebas, parasites, and non-infectious causes. Injuries, cancer, certain drugs, and other types of infections also can cause meningitis.

People who recover from meningitis can have permanent disabilities, such as brain damage, hearing loss, and learning disabilities, the CDC said.

Bacterial meningitis is highly contagious and is spread most often from person to person, especially in settings where people live together in close quarters, such as schools, college campuses, and army barracks.

Viral meningitis can also be spread from person to person, but does not usually cause meningitis.

Meningitis needs to be diagnosed rapidly through bloodwork and a spinal tap. This is a procedure done by a trained healthcare provider to get cerebrospinal fluid which can be tested for infection.

Different vaccines are available for children and adults to protect against the most common causes of bacterial meningitis.

Meningitis vaccinations are offered to those who are at greatest risk of infection, such as babies and young children whose immune systems are still developing and people with certain medical conditions, as well as those who are the likely to carry the bacteria in their nose and throat and spread the bacteria, according to the Meningitis Research Foundation.

9NEWS+ has multiple live daily shows including 9NEWS Mornings, Next with Kyle Clark and 9NEWS+ Daily, an original streaming program. 9NEWS+ is where you can watch live breaking news, weather updates, and press conferences. You can also replay recent newscasts and find videos on demand of our top stories, local politics, investigations and Colorado specific features.