EMMERDALE star Alexander Lincoln has broken his silence about his shock return to the soap.

The actor, who plays villain Jamie Tate on the ITV programme, revealed he's been "in talks" with show bosses, who are keen to get him back on the soap.

His character has been at the centre of a series of dramatic plots - including coming back from the dead and trying to slowly kill his mum Kim Tate.

The TV star said he's not ruled out a return to the soap, saying the door has been left open for a possible comeback.

When asked if Emmerdale bosses want him back, Alexander exclusively told The Sun: "Yes definitely, It's a conversation that I've had quite a few times.

"At the moment I'm quite enjoying this vibe and writing, so we'll see what happens in the future."

He continued: "I loved it there. It was the first place I worked at and I try to keep up as much as I can.

"I'm still friends with the cast, I still see Lawrence [Robb] a little bit, not as much as I'd like to as I don't go up north that much anymore. But I do speak to quite a few people."

Alexander then revealed that he's currently busy working on a new film called Enemy Within.

Many Netflix fans will know Alexander from his new movie In From the Side.

He plays the lead role in the rugby drama from writer-director Matt Carter.

It follows two players, rookie Mark (Lincoln) and rugby star Warren (Alexander King), who have a drunken sexual encounter that develops into an affair jeopardising their future with their respective partners and on the pitch once it all comes out.

"The fans have got in touch it's been really wonderful, the film has really resonated with people," he said about the reaction he's recieved.

"It's shed light on the LGBT community and really lovely people reaching out."

For several months, the village businesswoman Kim Tate played by Claire King believed her son Jamie was dead after driving his car into a lake.

She later finds out that Jamie pushed mother-in-law Hazel down the stairs and landed her in hospital.

A flabbergasted Kim finds out her troublesome son is actually alive and well after faking his death in September, 2021.