The match between the current table-toppers of the IPL 2023 is between the Rajasthan Royals (RR) and Lucknow Super Giants (LSG).

The 26th match of the IPL was to be played between RR and LSG, as RR is currently at the top of the table, followed by LSG.

The 26th match was going to be played at the home stadium of Rajasthan in Jaipur.

The pitch was on a low-scoring surface as the Rajasthan Royals won the toss and elected to field first.

KL Rahul and Kyle Mayers opened the innings for the LSG team.

Trent Boult bowled the first over, and he also bowled a maiden over, giving a good start to his team.

In the next over, both batsmen hit fours and started to score some runs.

They both started to form a good partnership and make a good total against the great batting line-up of RR.

Holder gave the first breakthrough to the LSG team as he took the wicket of KL.

Kyle, going forward, completed his half-century, as LSG also lost two more wickets by then.

In the end, Marcus Stoinis and Nicholas Pooran’s partnership added valuable runs to the total.

The LSG team put up a total of 154/7 against the RR team.

Ravichandran Ashwin took two wickets, while Trent Boult, Sandeep Sharma, and Jason Holder took one wicket each.

LSG brought in Amit Mishra in place of Kyle Mayers.

Yashasvi Jaiswal and Jos Buttler opened the innings for the RR team.

They both together gave a good start to their team, as they were making a good partnership.

In the last over of the powerplay, Yashasvi hit two consecutive fours, even though his catch was dropped.

Going on, they were playing great knocks, as Yashasvi even hit a great six to Marcus, but in the same over, he took his wicket.

In the next over, Sanju Samson got run out, and that was the turning point of the game.

Before the two frequent wickets, the match was in the hands of RR, and now it was difficult for them to chase the total.

Jos was the main hope for them as he followed the other batsmen of their team who lost their wickets.

In the end, LSG won the match by 10 runs, and Marcus Stoinis was elected as the Player of the Match.