The Future Has ArrivedWhat did we think the future would look like? How has it really turned out? What's next for humanity and the universe? What have we done? Lists to keep you up at night, quaking in your moon boots. Old Movies Whose Future We PassedWhat Sci-Fi Movies Will Be Wrong About (Probably)The Creepiest Things Alexa Has Ever DoneFilm Versions We'd Like to SeeHow '80s Sci-Fi Thought Fashion Would LookWhat Life Was Like Before Wi-FiThe Best New Smart Home ProductsThe Scariest Tech in the World RNRoko's Basilisk and the Potential Horrors of A.I.The Best TV Shows That Tackle TechnologyWhen 1960s Tech Was Shiny & NewPhilip K. Dick Tried to Warn UsThe Very Best Dystopian Shows

Vote up the machines you’ll miss the most. In an era when one small, handheld device has essentially replaced all other needs for technological inventions, those of us who remember “simpler” times can easily grow nostalgic for our beloved devices of the past. Machines we thought we'd always use, like video recorders, CDs, video game cartridges, and portable music players, have suddenly become outdated technology of yesteryear. Still, just because our smartphones now act as digital typewriters, music players, answering machines, and recording devices all in one doesn't mean we don't get nostalgic for the once state-of-the-art machines that brought so much joy and ease into our lives. This list features outdated technology that we can't help but miss. First introduced: William Grey installed the first public payphone in 1889. Unlike future versions, which required potential chatters to pay before they placed a call, Grey's invention relied on the honor system. Anyone could use the phone to make a call, then were asked to pay after they hung up. What they did: Housed in booths at shopping malls, on street corners, at restaurants, and other public spaces, pay phones allowed anyone out on the town to make a call to people still sitting in their homes. Usually starting with a quarter, the potential caller would feed the payphone coins and then dial the number of the person or business they intended to reach. If the call was an emergency, users were not required to pay for the telephone conversation. How they made life easier: If someone was out on the town and decided to stop for dinner, they could make a quick $.25 call to invite their friend without having to drive home to make the call. Shoppers who forgot their grocery lists could call their families from the grocery store to find out if they needed to buy more butter or eggs. Drivers who witnessed car accidents could quickly jog down the street to the nearest pay phone to call for emergency support within minutes. Kids wanting to spend more time with their friends at the mall only had to search the ground for loose change to call their parents and let them know. What they were replaced with: Motorola's first mass-produced and sold cell phone in 1983 eventually led to increasing numbers of people who owned portable phones. As technology evolved and phones became small enough for callers to place in their pockets and handbags, the payphone became obsolete.  First introduced: Inventors began experimenting with videocassette recorders (VCRs) in the early 1960s. By 1969, Sony had successfully developed a budget-friendly machine that allowed viewers to record their favorite movies and television shows while they were away from their televisions.What they did: VCRs were machines that, when equipped with blank VHS or Betamax tape, could record live commercial television broadcasts for viewers to watch at any time. Additionally, the device allowed for viewers to watch their favorite purchased mass-produced VHS movies at home as often as they wanted. Families also used the device to play their home-recorded videos to relive important camcorder-captured life events through their television screens. How they made life easier: Instead of having to come from a family outing in time to catch the evening news or a weekly aired broadcast of Star Trek or Dawson's Creek, fans could rest assured that their VCR would record their favorite television shows while they were away. Instead of having to wait for a cable network to re-air past episodes, they could rely on their taped recordings to provide entertainment that they could watch over and over again. As another added benefit, viewers who chose to record their shows and movies to watch later could fast-forward through pesky commercials that interfered with the otherwise continuous entertainment. If someone missed the opportunity to catch a movie in theaters, the VCR provided a way for them to view the film at home once it was released on VHS. What they were replaced with: As the internet became more prevalent in households, DVRs (which allowed TV viewers to schedule, record, replay, and store hundreds of hours of televised entertainment that was stored electronically instead of on tape) replaced VCRs. By the time streaming services like Netflix and Hulu hit the market, the VCR became a relic of the past. First introduced: Joseph Zimmerman first invented and patented the answering machine from his Milwaukee home in 1949. What they did: Originally weighing 80 pounds and consisting of two boxes, answering machines automatically picked up a phone call after several rings and allowed callers to leave a brief message. The machine recorded the message so that the recipient could listen to the message when they stepped back into the office or made it home from running errands. Most used a cassette tape to record messages, so listeners could rewind, fast-forward, replay, and erase messages after receiving them. How they made life easier: Instead of waiting around the house or the office for a phone call, people finally had the opportunity to move about their lives without worrying about missing out on important or timely information. What they were replaced with: Technically, answering machines still exist today- just in a much different capacity. As cell phones grew to replace landlines, companies built in voice mailbox systems for callers to leave messages.First introduced: The world saw its first compact disc (CD) when Japan placed them on the market in November 1982. A few months later, the invention hit the European market before changing how people stored information and listened to music worldwide.What they did: CDs were writable pieces of equipment that allowed content like music and computer programs to be stored and accessed. How they made life easier: For the music industry, listeners now had access to thin, small, easily portable discs that replaced bulkier cassette tapes, could hold more hours of uninterrupted sound, and produced better quality music. These discs also replaced floppy disks and hard disks- products that were previously used in computers to store information, run programs, and save work. What they were replaced with: The digitalization of information led to streaming services that listeners use on their smartphones and other devices. Additionally, external hard drives that store terabytes of information and digital app downloads that allow programs to run without the need for a hard copy of the application made CDs mostly unnecessary. First introduced: Though AT&T founded the modern(ish) version of the 4-1-1 telephone directory in 1968, landline telephone users dialed 4-1-1 to access information on a diverse range of topics well before then.What they did: If someone needed to know the telephone number of a local repair shop, they could call 4-1-1 to be connected with a human telephone operator who would give them the phone number and possibly connect them to the service directly. While the main purpose was to give telephone users access to phone numbers, people also called in search of answers regarding sports scores, the weather, bus schedules, election results, and even how to encourage wild animals like squirrels out of homes. How they made life easier: Phone numbers didn't have to be written down, and callers didn't have to bother with opening up the local newspaper to find out who won the latest election or what time the local bus was going to stop near their homes. They also didn't have to worry about memorizing phone numbers, writing them down, or losing them. Instead, dialing three simple numbers connected them to a friendly telephone operator who was equipped to help with a wide array of problems. What they were replaced with: In many ways, Google replaced the need for 4-1-1. As most people have some form of access to the internet, AT&T and other digital cell phone services no longer find 4-1-1 to be a necessary service. Because people can easily store numbers on their phones or find them with a simple search on their phone's browser, the information platform has become outdated.First introduced: Italian inventor Antonio Meucci created the first basic telephone in 1849. However, the first US patent for the invention wasn't awarded to Alexander Graham Bell for what became the first mass-produced device until 1876. What they did: A home phone consisted of a box with a nine-number rotary dial, a handset with an earpiece for listening and a speaker for talking, a chord that connected the handset to the box, and a telephone wire strung from the phone to the home's telephone jack. Eventually, buttons replaced the rotary mechanism, and antennas allowed users to wirelessly carry their conversations throughout the house. Home phones acted as the family's only source of outside communication and were usually shared among multiple family members. How they made life easier: Instead of having to walk down to a neighbor's house to spread the latest gossip, one person could pick up the phone, dial their friend's number, and share juicy conversations without ever leaving their kitchen. Loved ones living long distances had the opportunity to chat with thousands of miles between them. Instead of visiting a workplace directly to conduct business, most issues could be handled with the touch of a few buttons. What they were replaced with: The invention of the smartphone and the ability to have a personal phone directly in a person's pocket or handbag eventually made the need for home phones completely needless.