— Seven Wolfpack runs in the bottom of the third inning helped lead NC State to a 14-3 victory over Florida State in Friday night's series opener at Doak Field at Dail Park.

NC State (22-11, 6-9 ACC) erased its early 2-0 deficit with seven runs in the third inning, scoring four of its runs in the third frame with two outs. The Wolfpack scored 14 of the game's final 15 runs, putting the game out of reach with six runs in the bottom of the eighth.

Freshman left-hander Dominic Fritton shined in the first Friday night start of his career, pitching six innings while allowing just five hits and three runs. Fritton struck out a career-high 10 opposing batters to earn his second win of the season, improving to 2-2 on the year.

After Florida State (13-20, 4-12 ACC) jumped ahead first behind Nander De Sedas' two-run homer in the second inning, the Pack smacked three straight hits to open the bottom of the third to flip the momentum. Eli Serrano III doubled to lead off the inning before Parker Nolan singled to left field to put runners at first and third. Kalae Harrison then drove a 1-2 pitch into the right-field corner, hustling to third base for a bases-clearing triple.

With the score tied at 2-2, Will Marcy delivered an RBI groundout to put NC State in the lead for good. Three straight walks followed Marcy's at-bat, chasing Seminoles' Jackson Baumeister from the contest with one out in the third inning. Reliever Carson Montgomery struck out the first batter he faced to put two down in the inning, but Payton Green doubled the Pack's run tally for the frame with a three-RBI double. Green stuck with an 0-2 pitch on the outside corner, driving it down the left-field line to score LuJames Groover III, Jacob Cozart and Trevor Candelaria.

Serrano III capped off the scoring in the third with his second hit of the inning, lining an RBI single to center field to make it 7-2.

Fritton settled in after the Pack's seven-run offensive outburst, striking out five batters across the next three innings. At the plate, Marcy extended the Pack's lead to 8-2 in the fifth with a two-out RBI single.

Florida State scored its final run of the night behind a solo home run from Jaime Ferrer in the sixth inning. The Wolfpack scored six runs in the bottom of the eighth to stretch its lead from 8-3 to 14-3 heading into the top of the ninth. Cozart crushed an RBI double down the right-field line to make it 9-3. A wild pitch allowed Groover III to cross home plate for the Pack's 10th run before a pair of two-out, two-RBI base hits from Serrano III and Nolan pushed the score to its final tally at 14-3.

Justin Lawson and Carson Kelly combined to toss three scoreless innings out of the bullpen, scattering just three hits with five combined strikeouts. Combined with Fritton's 10 strikeouts, NC State pitchers tied a season-high in the category with 15 strikeouts on the night. All three of NC State's 15-strikeout pitching performances have come against ACC opponents.

Marcy, Serrano III and Nolan each paced NC State with three-hit performances. The final four batters in NC State's starting lineup combined to go 8-for-16 with 10 RBI and seven runs scored.

The Wolfpack handed Jackson Baumeister (2-3) the loss on Friday night, smacking four hits and drawing four walks to generate six runs off FSU's Friday night starter. Baumeister was tabbed the Perfect Game and NCBWA National Pitcher of the Week following a 14-strikeout performance this past weekend at Clemson, which was a 5-1 Florida State victory.

UP NEXT

NC State looks to capture its second straight ACC home series victory in Saturday's matchup against the Seminoles. Game two of this weekend's series is set for 7 p.m. and will be televised on ACC Network.