Describing itself as a 'spa hideaway', Weavers' House Spa, in Lavenham, near Sudbury, is just that.

Tucked off the historic wool town's High Street, the spa is an architectural mix of traditional with classy modern styling: think rustic walls, wooden weatherboarding and bi-fold doors.

My husband and I entered through its well-stocked spa boutique, offering a range of luxury products wide enough to rival any major retailer.

The receptionist gave us a warm but professional welcome before talking us through the spa's facilities and showing us where to find them.

Our first stop was the changing rooms, which were spacious, light and airy, with private cubicles and individual lockers for storage.

Having changed into swimwear and discovered fluffy robes and slippers within every locker – so comfortable I have since regretted not asking how much the robes would cost to purchase – I walked through to the spa's beautiful lounge.

Offering views on to the tranquil outdoors area (and with complimentary fresh fruit, water and glossy magazines to hand) it was the perfect spot to regroup and fill in a health questionnaire ahead of my treatment later that afternoon.

Having ticked all the required boxes, I headed outside to join my husband in the landscaped courtyard's vitality pool.

The outdoors area also includes loungers and parasols, which on a warmer day would have been a joy to relax on.

After warming ourselves in the vitality pool – the goosebumps I had on entering soon disappeared after I was submerged up to my shoulders in its 39c waters – we walked to the sauna.

Now, this sauna really packs a punch. On entering we turned over the sand timer and counted down the seconds as the grains rose to the five-minute mark, before moving on to the steam room, which was more comfortable for us.

After our session in the steam, it was time for my treatment.

Having earlier filled in my consultation card, I returned to the lounge for a pre-treatment smoothie, waiting to meet my therapist Fiona.

She and I talked through my consultation responses and discussed the treatment ahead.

I was booked in for a 60-minute Stress Not CBD massage (also available in a 90-minute option) – she noted I had requested a peaceful massage as opposed to conversation throughout.

Fiona explained that the calming and anti-inflammatory massage was designed to target muscle pain and melt away tension, for an experience of blissful respite. With a busy lifestyle, this sounded almost too good to be true.

Then I was shown to the treatment room, where Fiona explained the massage bed and left the room as I got comfortable.

The massage table itself was unlike any I have seen before. It had a heated hydrotherm water mattress, with arm rests for my comfort and was fully adjustable, allowing Fiona to raise, lower and tilt it as necessary.

After Fiona left the room I climbed on the bed – under the light but cosy duvet – and popped my face through the hole as I wriggled around for optimum comfort.

The 60-minute massage started with a bowl of steaming aroma salts placed under my face, some deep breathing and relaxing pressure on my back and shoulders.

Then, warm flannels were used to cleanse my feet before my body was dry brushed to help improve circulation.

The massage itself used a range of oils and heated jade 'wave stones' combining to create an intense sensation – they felt very hot to start with and gradually the temperature cooled as they were swept over my body.

After massaging my legs Fiona concentrated on my back and shoulders.

Then I turned over for the front of the legs to receive attention before a heated flannel was placed over my eyes as my shoulders were massaged.

The entire experience almost felt like a meditation rather than a treatment.

Afterwards, I floated out of the treatment room to the adjacent upstairs chill-out area to enjoy a sorbet.

Eventually I prised my relaxed body off the comfortable lounger and headed back to the changing rooms – feeling exceptionally grateful for the spacious shower cubicles and quality toiletries on hand.

I left Weavers' House Spa feeling warm, content, relaxed and as though I had enjoyed a few hours in a different world.

Weavers' House Spa is open daily 9am-6.30pm, with the last entry at 5.30pm. The Spa Boutique is open until 7pm daily. For more information, go to https://theswanatlavenham.co.uk/spa/

The Stress Not CBD 60-minute massage is priced at £110.

Weavers' House also offers three levels of membership, starting from £60 a month, with use of the sauna, steam, vitality pool, relaxation suites, spa garden terrace and offering a discount on treatments.