When you apply for this position, please say you saw this job on Green Dream Jobs!!

For over 100 years, Save the Redwoods League has been dedicated to protecting the ancient redwood forests so all generations can experience the inspiration and majesty of redwoods. Since its founding in 1918, Save the Redwoods League has protected more than 200,000 acres of forests and helped create 66 redwood parks and preserves for everybody to enjoy.

To learn more about us, go to our website.

Save the Redwoods League is seeking a Geographic Information System (GIS) Manager to perform a variety of functions related to the analysis, prioritization, mapping, and implementation of the League’s integrated conservation programs.

The GIS Manager is a vital part of the Program team, managing the League’s cartographic department; further developing and implementing the League’s conservation planning tools; conducting spatial analyses and interpreting results; and implementing recommendations collaboratively.

The GIS Manager manages all aspects of the League’s Geographic Information System (GIS) to track, analyze, and visualize data in support of the League’s Connect, Protect and Restore goals, and the Science program. The GIS Manager assists the Director of Science & Conservation Planning in the development, use and maintenance of a variety of conservation planning tools that support decision-making across all elements of the League’s conservation work, including land protection, restoration, and equitable public access for visitors of the coast redwood and giant sequoia forest parks and reserves. These decision-support tools enable the League to catalyze and respond to conservation opportunities within a robust science-based planning context and help with the prioritization and implementation of both regional and property-specific Protect, Restore and Connect activities.

For over 100 years, Save the Redwoods League has been dedicated to protecting the ancient redwood forests so all generations can experience the inspiration and majesty of redwoods. Since its founding in 1918, Save the Redwoods League has protected more than 200,000 acres of forests and helped create 66 redwood parks and preserves for everybody to enjoy.

Our GIS Manager can work in our San Francisco office or remotely and would need to live in the Bay Area or within the coast redwood and giant sequoia ranges in Northern California. Monthly inperson meetings are required in our San Francisco office.

Supervises cartographic and analytical services for conservation, education, marketing and communications, and development projects:

Develops scope of GIS projects, infrastructure and software; manages associated project budgets

Works with Director of Land Protection to develop maps to assess conservation value and priority for property-specific and regional conservation work

Supervises and reviews the work of consultants and contractors in developing key data sets and cartographic products; supplies them with the information to carry out their work on projects

Trains staff GIS users on the League’s cartographic standards, best practices and various skills in ArcGIS, and in new cartographic software including ArcPro

Maintains the League’s geographical information databases: coordinate the collection, quality control, archiving, and interpretation of best available data resources on the coast redwood and giant sequoia ecosystems, and the residential and urban landscapes connected to them

Supervises staff, consultants, or temporary personnel in creating and using League GIS data or in other related areas

Knowledge of current trends in conservation planning, emerging GIS technologies, data analysis and management and can apply this expertise to California’s forest ecosystems

Manages the development and improvement of the League’s Land Archive Database, including:

Coordinates with contractors to identify the League’s historical transactions by year

Develops and maintains a geodatabase that represents the League’s contribution to conservation over the past 100+ years

Develops and maintains maps that exhibit the League’s historical conservation in both giant sequoia and redwood ranges

Supports the GIS needs of the Science & Conservation Planning program; manages and updates large datasets and map making for field data collection

Tracks and implements evolving standards in the fields of spatial analyses, programming languages that improve the efficiency or quality of GIS analyses, cartography, data archives and repositories, and environmental problem-solving relevant to redwood forests

Assists with the development and use of state-of-the-art decision-support tools to provide a robust conservation planning framework for the coast redwood and giant sequoia forest regions by:

Tracks League conservation and public access priorities and recommends strategic shifts in activities needed to help achieve League goals

Designs the interpretive materials (maps, graphs, etc.) used for conservation planning tools and products to relay key findings to League staff

Assists, as landscape conditions change, in the update of conservation planning tools and resulting recommendations as directed by the Director of Science & Conservation Planning to maintain alignment between the conservation plan and League goals

Collaborates with Program Team members to support the implementation of research, land acquisition, restoration, stewardship, park support, policy activities:

Evaluates prospective land acquisitions, restoration activities, park support or other public access projects for consistency with Conservation-Planning-tool criteria and approved conservation plans

Assists with the design and development of property-specific conservation plans to identify land-use designations, including reserves, for multi-use properties

Assists with preparation of grant proposals and progress reports to key funders on conservation planning projects

Works with other organizations and outside advisers on a range of topics related to the League’s priorities and work plans:

Shares League datasets with conservation partners as appropriate

Collaborates with the Giant Sequoia Lands Coalition, especially other spatial analysts in the Coalition, and provide ongoing support as needed to the Giant Sequoia Working Group

Other duties as may be required from time to time.

Graduate degree or equivalent experience in environmental planning, conservation biology, geography, ecology, GIS, or related field

At least three years’ work experience in developing land management or conservation plans

Excellent analytical skills to assemble, assess and organize data, to conduct analyses and propose recommendations on technical issues

Knowledge of the natural communities, ecosystems, ecosystem processes, and their conservation needs within coast-redwood and giant-sequoia forests

Commitment to the League’s pragmatic, non-confrontational approach to conservation

Excellent writer, able to tailor message to different audiences

Ability to supervise and manage consultants, temporary personnel, and staff on a project basis

Ability to handle multiple complex tasks under pressure and stringent time constraints

A strong commitment to the League’s Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion values and commitments, as well as the League’s cultural attributes – empowering, accountable, continuously improving, supportive and inclusive

Experience with data manipulation ArcPy, R, QGIS or other similar tools, and experience with version control and data archiving

Experience with conservation planning method and models such as Marxan or other related conservation planning tools

Experience with remote sensing tools and analyses, and improving remotely sensed data with groundtruthing efforts

Demonstrated cultural competency and ability to communicate and interact effectively with people across cultures, ethnic groups, and identities; verbal and written fluency in a language other than English is desirable

Occasionally required to hike through forest land while working off-site, including walking on uneven ground, climbing over obstacles, and accessing remote locations

Occasionally lifts, carries, or otherwise moves and positions objects weighing up to 30 pounds

Regularly sits at a desk or computer workstation; utilizes computers, telephones and other office equipment; moves about the office to collaborate with colleagues

Please click "Apply" below to email your resume, a cover letter addressing why you are a great fit for this role, and your salary expectations, with the subject heading "GIS Manager”.

NO CALLS PLEASE . . . we are busy protecting redwoods. Thank You!

Save the Redwoods League is an Equal Opportunity Employer and is committed to creating an environment of equity and inclusion. Recruiting and retaining a diverse workforce is a high priority; people of all identities, backgrounds, and cultures are encouraged to apply. Learn more about our Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion initiatives.

When you apply for this position, please say you saw this job on Green Dream Jobs!!

Taking Climate Change Seriously… when’s that going to happen???It’s hard to believe that COP27, the annual international climate conference, ended without commitments to phase out fossil fuels.

Really? Replacing the US Postal Service fleet with gas guzzlers? Congress finally got a deal for USPS to immediately by EVs for 70% of the postal fleet; 100% starting in 2026.

Is It Time for Your Green Career?A silver lining of this pandemic is that many people are switching to more fulfilling Green careers.

Keep up with our News!

SustainableBusiness.com is a global news and networking website dedicated to the growth of green business and a green economy, online since 1996.

Are you sure you want to delete this file?