The Oshi no Ko anime made a huge splash last week, and if you can’t wait to know what happens next, you can read the manga now for free!

While the first episode was already movie-length at 1 hour and 20 minutes long, we’re sure that many who watched it can’t wait to find out what happens next. Though the next episodes are expected to be only 20+ minutes long — so basically your typical anime episode.

If you can’t wait to find out what happens, or if 20-minute episodes are too short for you, the ongoing Oshi no Ko manga (which is over 100 chapters long now) is available for free officially on Manga Plus. This is the publisher Shueisha’s official manga reading platform for readers outside Japan.

There are some catches of course. You can only read each chapter once, meaning you won’t be able to re-read chapters. So, you better make sure you take some time to read them and not fall into the temptation of speed-reading.

Also, you can only read all of the manga chapters via the Manga Plus mobile app for Android and iOS. On PC, you can only read the first six and the latest six chapters.

The Oshi no Ko manga is written by Aka Akasaka (of Kaguya-sama: Love is War fame) and illustrated by Mengo Yokoyari (of Scum’s Wish). It began in April 2020 and was serialized in Weekly Young Jump.

The series’ premise is described as:

“In the world of showbiz, lies are weapons.” Goro works as an OB-GYN in the countryside, a life far removed from the entertainment industry. Meanwhile, his favorite idol, Ai Hoshino, has begun her climb to stardom. The two meet in the “worst possible way,” setting the gears of fate in motion! The amazing Aka Akasaka and Mengo Yokoyari team up to depict the world of showbiz from a completely new perspective in this shocking series!

New chapters of the manga are released every Wednesday at 11 PM PH time (except when there are week-long breaks) on Manga Plus.

Meanwhile, new episodes of the anime are also released every Wednesday, with the streaming platform to watch it depending on your country. For instance, PH viewers can watch the anime on Netflix.