UK viewers of Married At First Sight Australia were left 'screaming at their TVs' during Thursday evening's episode, as they watched 'villain' Harrison Boon wreak havoc on the experiment.

During the show, the builder was revealed to have dumped wife Bronte Schofield via text message, before heading to the dinner party to face the wrath of his co-stars over the decision.

But despite the heat being on him, Harrison was seen turning things around on other couples, accusing both Clare Nomarhas and Melinda Willis of having 'fake' marriages.

As the drama unfolded, fans rushed to Twitter to share their thoughts, with many branding Harrison an 'actor' as they slammed his 'false' behaviour.

Whilst Melinda was lauded for standing up to her rival Harrison as she strongly held her corner during the dinner party, with viewers insisting she 'take a bow' for the headstrong behaviour.

During the episode, the group once again convened for the show's weekly dinner party, following a drama-filled couples retreat - which saw Bronte and Harrison standing united.

But the couple shocked their co-stars as they entered the dinner party extremely frosty towards one another, as Bronte quickly revealed that Harrison had ended their marriage via text message following a bust-up.

The girls rallied to support the upset bride, after expressing their doubts on Harrison's intentions just days prior.

At the dinner party, Harrison provided his view of the events to the group as he claimed that Bronte had 'broken his trust' by saying she wanted to go home during an argument - appearing to tear up whilst holding his head in his hands.

But in a hilarious turn of events, co-star Ollie Skelton pointed out in his piece to camera that despite an emotional display, there were actually no tears falling from Harrison's eyes.

And many were quick to agree on Twitter, with one user writing: 'Harrison (Mr Fake 2023) can't even fake cry and act properly.'

A second penned: 'Harrison is as fake as a rolex bought on a market stall.'

'I just acidentally laughed out loud at Harrison working out his dealbreakers - "I need consistency and trust",' shared another.

Another echoed: 'And the academy award goes to Harrison - buckle up boy this dinner party will not be kind to you.'

'Harrison is playing everyone like a fiddle, he is sooo fake,' wrote another.

There was even more drama to come at the dinner table as Harrison appeared to be talking his way out of the situation.

Melinda attempted to grill him on the break-up with Bronte, with the builder insistent that it came due to a lack of trust between them.

Diverting attention as Clare began to question his actions, Harrison branded her 'the biggest loudmouth with the worst relationship' as he accused her of faking feelings towards husband Jesse Burford.

This led Jesse to question Clare and admit that he saw some truth in Harrison's claims, leading to an emotional speech from the marriage celebrant as he claimed that Clare didn't have romantic feelings for him.

But one couple who refused to fall victim to Harrison's medelling was Melinda and husband Layton Mills.

The latter was accused by Harrison of saying he would have to 'sneak out' from his wife to leave the house, which Layton denied - with Melinda sticking by her husband.

Declaring that she would 'never' let Harrison cause tension in her relationship, the businesswoman stuck to her guns and continued to grill him at the table.

And as she became embroiled in a war of words with him, Channel 4 viewers took to Twitter to praise the beauty CEO.

'MELINDA. DID. NOT. EVER. BACK. DOWN. What a woman,' shared one fan.

Another wrote: Melinda is what Harrison APSPIRES to be'.

'Mel giving Harrison a taste of his own medicine. WE LOVE YOU MEL,' added another.

Others even suggested that she join the show's panel of experts, writing: 'Petition for Melinda to join the panel of experts'.

Whilst many even went as far to dub Harrison the show's 'greatest villain of all time' as they were left in awe of the scenes.

Married At First Sight continues on Channel 4, Monday at 7:30pm.