The “new” glume wheat (NGW) is a type of cultivated wheat found on archaeological sites but, unlike other wheat types found archaeologically, it is no longer cultivated. NGW was initially distinguished from other archaeologically attested glume wheat crops (einkorn, emmer and spelt) on the basis of its chaff in samples of charred remains from Neolithic and Bronze Age sites in northern Greece (Jones et al., 2000). The same wheat type was found at Bronze Age Feudvar (Serbia) in the 1990s, where it was initially described as unripe, failed, or sieving waste of emmer wheat (Borojevic, 1991; Kroll, 2016), and NGW chaff is of the same morphological type as that identified as emmer ‘machaoid type’ by de Moulin (1997) at Neolithic Cafer Höyük (Turkey). The earliest recognition of this unusual type of wheat chaff may have been at Neolithic sites in Germany, where Knörzer (1974, 1980) observed a type of chaff (which shows similarities with NGW – Jones et al., 2000) that could not be confidently identified to species. Criteria for the identification of NGW grains were established at Bronze Age Stillfried (Austria) by Kohler-Schneider (2003), and additional criteria for the identification of chaff, on the basis of near complete ears at Bronze Age Lucone D (northern Italy), were described by Perego (2017). NGW has been referred to in some publications as ‘striate emmeroid’ (Fuller et al., 2012) or Sanduri (Kroll, 2016), the latter reflecting the Georgian name (zanduri) given to a mixture of wheat species grown in Georgia in recent times (Menabde, 1948; Dorofeev, 1969; Jones et al., 2000; Mosulishvili et al., 2017). Since its initial discovery, NGW has been reported at archaeological sites across western Asia and Europe (Kenéz et al., 2014; Toulemonde et al., 2015), where it was a significant component of the crop repertoire during the Neolithic and Bronze Age, perhaps cultivated (in some instances) as a mixed crop with einkorn (Jones et al., 2000; Kohler-Schneider, 2003; Perego, 2017), and it has recently been identified as a separate pure crop in its own right at Neolithic Çatalhöyük (Turkey) (Bogaard et al., 2013, 2017). Its cultivation declined after the Bronze Age, and finds are relatively rare in the Iron Age, after which it apparently disappears from the archaeological record (Kenéz et al., 2014).

Despite the proliferation of descriptive terms for ‘NGW’, there is a general consensus among archaeobotanists working across Europe and Western Asia that all these synonyms refer to a distinct morphological type represented in the archaeological record. NGW has distinctive morphological features for both grain and chaff (spikelet bases) that distinguish it from the other cultivated glume wheats found at Neolithic and Bronze Age sites in Europe and western Asia: einkorn (Triticum monococcum L. subsp. monococcum), emmer (Triticum turgidum L. subsp. dicoccum [Schrank] Thell.) and spelt (Triticum aestivum L. subsp. spelta [L.] Thell.). Of these glume wheats, the closest match is with emmer, both morphologically and, where this can be calculated, in the number of grains (two) per spikelet (Jones et al., 2000; Kohler-Schneider, 2003), though the chaff also shares some morphological traits with einkorn (de Moulin, 1997; Jones et al., 2000). In addition, both grains and chaff of NGW have morphological characteristics that are not found in any of the other three glume wheat species, and these characteristics are shared by all archaeological identifications of NGW (and its synonyms). This is significant as it means that a taxonomic identification of one archaeological accession of NGW can confidently be applied to all other archaeological finds of the same morphological type.

On the basis of comparison with 181 modern specimens of spikelet bases (both charred and uncharred) of twelve wild and cultivated glume wheat types (Supplementary Table 1), including Triticum aestivum L. subsp. macha (Dekapr. & Menabde) Mackey (from which the term ‘machaoid’ derives) and numerous accessions of T. turgidum subsp. diccoccum (to which NGW was initially assigned), the closest morphological match for NGW was found to be Triticum timopheevii (Zhuk.) Zhuk. subsp. timopheevi (Jones et al., 2000). Triticum timopheevii subsp. timopheevii was cultivated in Georgia until at least the mid-twentieth century (Stoletova, 1924; Dekaprelevic and Menabde, 1932; Dekaprelevic, 1954; Menabde and Ertizian, 1960) and is thought to have been endemic to this region (Zohary et al., 2012; Mosulishvili et al., 2017) having been domesticated locally (and perhaps recently) from Triticum timopheevii (Zhuk.) Zhuk. subsp. araraticum Jakubz. Despite this close match, the true taxonomic identity of NGW remains unknown. It may, as suggested by the morphological affiliation, result from an earlier domestication of T. timopheevii subsp. araraticum (the Georgian T. timopheevii subsp. timopheevii being either a relic of this early crop or the result of a later domestication) or it may be descended from wild emmer (T. turgidum L. subsp. dicoccoides [Korn. ex Asch. & Graebn.] Thell.), possibly by a separate domestication or alternatively by splitting of the initial domesticated lineage into distinct populations that diverged to give ‘typical’ emmer and NGW (Jones et al., 2000).

The taxonomic identity of NGW could be resolved by DNA typing and is essential for answering questions concerning its origins, such as whether this crop originated from a previously unknown domestication in southwest Asia or resulted from later genetic changes in an existing wheat crop (Jones et al., 2000; Toulemonde et al., 2015). There are unambiguous differences between the T. timopheevii and T. turgidum groups at the genetic level, the former possessing the G and At genomes, and the latter the B and Au genomes (Zohary et al., 2012). The two types of A genome are very similar and difficult to distinguish by DNA sequencing, but the G and B genomes have distinctive genetic polymorphisms (Allaby et al., 1999; Sallares and Brown, 2004). These polymorphisms include variations in the G and B versions of the Ppd-1 gene (Takenaka and Kawahara, 2012; 2013), coding for a protein involved in the photoperiod response, which we have used in design of a diagnostic set of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests that enable T. timopheevii and T. turgidum wheats to be unambiguously identified (Czajkowska et al., 2019).

Utilization of a PCR test for taxonomic identification of the NGW would require analysis of ancient DNA (aDNA), which is challenging with charred cereal specimens due to the extensive DNA breakdown that occurs during the heating process involved in preservation of these remains (Threadgold and Brown, 2003). It is clear that with many charred grains the degree of transformation to carbon is such that preserved aDNA cannot be detected by PCR (Brown et al., 1998; Brown, 1999; Oliveira et al., 2012; Fernandez et al., 2013; Lundström et al., 2018; Lempiäinen-Avci et al., 2020) or by next generation sequencing (Nistelberger et al., 2016). This does not, however, negate the conclusions of early work that some grains in some charred samples retain DNA fragments that are sufficiently intact to be amplified by highly specific and sensitive PCR tests (Brown, 1999), as shown by the numerous reports of aDNA sequences obtained from charred cereal samples (e.g. Allaby et al., 1994, 1997; 1999; Blatter et al., 2002; Schlumbaum et al., 1998; Fernandez et al., 2013; Bilgiç et al., 2016; Tanaka et al., 2010; Castillo et al., 2016; Ciftci et al., 2019) as well as charred remains of other types of plant (e.g. grape: Manen et al., 2003; maize: Freitas et al., 2003; oak: Deguilloux et al., 2006; pea: Smýkal et al., 2014).

Two previous attempts to use aDNA typing to identify NGW have been reported, but in one of these papers the sequences obtained did not enable the B and G genomes to be distinguished (Blatter et al., 2002), and in the second the PCRs were unsuccessful with the archaeological samples (Boscato et al., 2008). In addition, we previously reported G-specific sequences from two individual grains in an archaeobotanical sample from Assiros Toumba (Brown et al., 1998). Although NGW chaff had already been identified at this site, the sample that was tested did not contain NGW chaff and was primarily composed of emmer mixed with smaller amounts of einkorn and spelt. We have therefore remained cautious about this G result.

In this paper we report use of the Ppd-1 test with DNA extracts prepared from nine charred accessions of NGW and detection of G-specific signals with two of these.