HOLLAND — Those looking to take in the tulips during the 2023 Tulip Time Festival appear to be in luck, as early indicators point to the flowers being in peak bloom during this year’s festival.

Gwen Auwerda, executive director for Tulip Time, told The Sentinel her most recent conversation with the Holland Parks Department on April 12 was encouraging. She said recent weather has had a positive effect.

More: Tulip Time-themed beer now available from Big Lake Brewing

“This warm weather has really helped the tulips grow taller, which is exactly what they need,” Auwerda said. “Some rain that's been predicted would also be helpful because it's been a little dry.”

While the area could see a cool down this week, Auwerda said that's actually a positive for the tulips because it stops their growth. She said the flowers are growing well and the pause in growth will help ensure they bloom during the festival instead of before.

This year’s festival runs May 6-14, giving the tulips less than a month.

“We are expecting ... to begin to see some color on the buds probably late next week and into the week of the 24th — and if it stays sunny and warm during the day, they'll start to pop up and bloom,” Auwerda said.

Once the tulips begin to bloom, Auwerda said, they typically last two to three weeks at their most radiant.

“We're expecting to have really good peak tulips starting the first weekend and from there, it's dependent on the weather as we get into May,” she said. “Typically, once they bloom, the blooms last 21 days.”

Auwerda said she gets questions about the tulips as early as January some years, but does her best not to stress too much about whether they'll be in peak condition for the festival — especially because there's so little that can be done.

“We have such a long history, especially the last 12 to 15 years, of the tulips blooming the week of the festival, so how long they last and when they start, it just always seems to work out well,” Auwerda said.

Subscribe: Get all your breaking news and unlimited access to our local coverage

It’s a process that starts in August, when tulips are ordered and shipped from the Netherlands. They arrive in Holland in mid-September, are planted in October, and grow their roots all winter long.

“They actually begin to sprout in March and people get nervous when they see the little green tulips starting to pop up — but that's what they're supposed to do,” Auwerda said.

As for the total number planted each year? Auwerda estimates, with all local attractions combined, there'll be around 4.5 million tulips blooming in Holland this spring.