Swimming champion Riley Gaines responded to Rep. Katie Porter (D-CA) over the weekend after Porter called out Gaines during a panel discussion and effectively accused her of just trying to get attention.

The segment went viral after British political commentator Piers Morgan slammed Porter during the discussion on HBO’s “Real Time” with host Bill Maher.

“Hey @RepKatiePorter I’m not speaking up for myself…I’m done playing sports,” Gaines said. “I’m not fighting for me. I’m actually supposed to be in dental school this year. But I’ve changed my life plans because I see what’s at stake if someone doesn’t fight for the present and next generation.”

“Why is it always women fighting against sex-based protections?” Gaines continued. “That will forever be beyond me.”

Why is it always women fighting against sex-based protections? That will forever be beyond me

The segment came after Gaines was attacked last week by radical transgender activists who swarmed her when she visited San Francisco State University to advocate for the rights of female athletes.

Porter said during the discussion that she “strongly” disagreed with Gaines, about which Morgan pressed her for more information.

“I think that it should be up to sporting bodies to make the decisions about who is actually—” Porter started to respond before being cut off.

“But what has she said that is actually wrong?” Morgan fired back.

CLICK HERE TO GET THE DAILY WIRE APP

“I think that what she has done is tried to turn this, we talked about people becoming, using things to kind of get likes and get clicks,” Porter said.

“That’s not what she’s doing,” Morgan responded. “All I’ve seen her do is stand up for women’s rights, for fairness and equality. She actually competed against Lia Thomas, and it was obviously unfair. Lia Thomas won one of the races in the NCAA championships by 50 seconds against a bunch of biological females who simply couldn’t keep up. That cannot be right. It cannot be fair.”

When Porter said that she thought Gaines was speaking up for herself, Morgan responded, “I think she’s speaking for pretty much every female athlete in the world.”