The April update for New State Mobile is only a few days away and Krafton has released a preview video of what surprises the new patch holds for its players. The update is set to be released on 20 April and the game servers are expected to go under maintenance for a while on the launch day.

The main highlight of the new patch is the ‘Ace League’ competition, which is specifically designed for players who intend to improve their skillset. The competition will be added 12 days before the conclusion of every season and it contains both preliminary and final rounds.

The April update for New State Mobile is only a few days away and Krafton has released a preview video of what surprises the new patch holds for its players. The update is set to be released on 20 April and the game servers are expected to go under maintenance for a while on the launch day.

The main highlight of the new patch is the ‘Ace League’ competition, which is specifically designed for players who intend to improve their skillset. The competition will be added 12 days before the conclusion of every season and it contains both preliminary and final rounds.

Let us know more details about the upcoming New State Mobile update.

Also Read: Skyesports Masters, India’s First Franchised CSGO League With Rs 2 Crore Prize Pool Announced

One can participate in the event by selecting ‘Ace League’ in the ‘Battle Royale’ tab in the map selection screen when the league is being held. The league takes place in TPP squad mode and the map is changed every day during the 1-week preliminary rounds(Try-Outs) Winning the preliminary matches is essential as they can get prestige coins and Final Match tickets, which are mandatory to participate in the Finals.

There is no limit to the number of participants, and each game may award the prize multiple times. If you win the finals, you get Prestige Coins as well as the title of Ace League winner. Prestige Coin is a currency that may be used to buy various products at the ‘Prestige Shop,’ which will be updated shortly. As mentioned above, there will be 2-day finals following one week of preliminary rounds.

A magazine coupler and AKM C2 customisation will be added. Due to C2 customization, the magazine’s capacity expands from 30 to 50 bullets, but its loading speed decreases.

Avanpost was previously a construction site, but the work has been completed and changed into a new building. Along with the improvements in Avanpost, Erangel’s vehicles have been updated! In Erangel, Nova will replace Electron. Lightning will also make an appearance in Erangel.

* Siege Mode (added in Dec 2022 update) will be reopened with slight changes. The squad mode is replaced by Solo mode.

* The Wave Balance has been altered. The area near the inhibitor now has a hand grenade spawn location and they removed the Molotovs.

* The character respawn point has been relocated to the front of the inhibitor.

* In Team DeathMatch Mode(TDM), the kill target has been increased from 30 to 40.

Three new player titles namely, ‘The Most Kills’, ‘Most Chickens Dinners’ and ‘Champion’, are added. The detailed or official written patch notes will be released soon on the official website.

In order to push the update to the game’s servers, the servers will go down due to the maintenance break on 20 April 2023. The server maintenance takes place from 0:00 UTC to 6:00 UTC i.e., 5:30 AM IST to 12:30 PM IST. Players can download and play the new update once the maintenance concludes

Also Read: iQOO All Stars Cup Season 3 New State Mobile – Gods Reign Emerged Victorious and Won Rs 5 Lakh Prize Money