Skip to main content

There’s something for everyone. From award-winning theater and music, to poetry and exhibitions, experience the power of the arts with us.

Searching for Shakespeare

Our April festival celebrating 400 years of Shakespeare's First Folio

Theater

Our award-winning performances of Shakespeare, adaptations, and new works

Book Club

Our virtual book club inspired by Shakespeare and our collection

Our doors are reopening in Fall 2023! Learn about the building renovation and start planning your visit. In the meantime, find us online and on the road.

What's on

5 must sees at the Folger

A checklist of favorite things for your next visit

Shakespeare, his world, and beyond

Discover Shakespeare’s stories and the world that shaped them. Deepen your understanding of his works and their cultural influence.

Shakespeare's works

Read and learn more about Shakespeare's plays and poems

Shakespeare in print

The First Folio (the book that gave us Shakespeare) and what came after

Shakespeare in performance

From playhouse to film sets, explore four centuries of staging Shakespeare

Shakespeare's life

Find out about Shakespeare's life in Stratford and London

Collection highlights

See manuscripts, paintings, costumes and more from the Folger collection

Shakespeare for kids

Resources and activities for young children and their parents

Bring Shakespeare’s work to life in the classroom. Find teaching resources and opportunities.

Teaching with the Folger Method

An accessible and immersive way to teach students about any kind of literature

Become a Teacher Member

Get full access to the latest resources and ongoing professional development

Professional development

From live webinars to on-demand content for educators, join us

Teaching resources

Access lesson plans and activities for the classroom, organized by play

Shakespeare's works

Read and search the complete works of Shakespeare for free

Student programs

All kinds of programs for all kinds of students

Dive deep into the world’s largest Shakespeare collection and access primary sources from the early modern period.

About our collections

From printed works of Shakespeare to rare materials from the early modern period

Use the library

Folger Institute

Find out about our scholarly programs and fellowship opportunities

Search the catalog

Use our online catalog to search the Folger collection

Ask a librarian

Get answers to your questions about Shakespeare, our collection, and more

Become a part of the story

Support us to bring Shakespeare and his world to life for everyone.

Become a member

Unlock more of the Folger with a membership

How to give

More options for how to make your donation

The Wonder of Will

Our campaign supporting the building renovation project

Planned giving

Help keep the Folger going and growing for the next generation

six plays printed in mid-1830s Mexico City. A handwritten index on the front flyleaf lists the book’s contents, and parchment tabs with embossed numbers sit on the first page of each play. This post comments on

The sammelband’s Otelo, printed in 1835 by Miguel Gonzalez, used Teodoro de la Calle’s 1802 translation. His Otelo is the second known Spanish translation of a Shakespeare play, the first being a 1795 publication of Hamlet in Madrid. By far the most popular of Shakespeare’s plays in 19th century Spain, Otelo premiered in Madrid on January 1st, 1802, and starred famous Spanish actor Isidoro Máiquez who played the titular character 19 times that year alone. In fact, the actor gave de la Calle a copy of the tragedy to translate—a French adaption by Jean-Francois Ducis.

The French dramatist based his Shakespeare adaptations off  French translations, as he did not know English. ’ translations took creative liberties by revising plots and renaming characters, for example, is a Dutch translation of

published an adaptation with musical accompaniment of the scene  Edelmira, and the events leading up to it.

The title page of each play in the  that they were performed at the National Mexican Theatre. The fourth play,  shows this on its title page, though I am more concerned with the play’s printer, . My investigation of him quickly developed into a case study on printing in Mexico after independence

Tomás Uribe y Alcalde and his brother José Uribe y Alcalde helmed print shops that produced polemical texts from 1828-1836. After Mexico gained its independence from Spain in 1821, political actors wielded print as a weapon in their struggle over power; with print they put forward proposals for the nascent Mexican Republic and challenged their political rivals. A consumer market did not flourish, understandably, under a Mexican Republic marked by debt, foreign invasions, and political instability. Printers, then, sought out lucrative business deals with politicians.

Now, how do the plays in this book relate to the politics of printing post-independence Mexico? This is a question I have yet to answertheater may have spurred debate or communicated certain political messages.  was a marker of class and status, distinguishing elites from the common  A further study into post-independence Mexican theater would paint an interesting picture of culture’s role in the young republic—and who it might be for. If this sparks your interest,  compiled for you to get started:

Ybarra, Patricia. “Mexican Theater History and Its Discontents: Politics, Performance, and History in Mexico.”

Sumillera, Rocío G. “A Tribute to Shakespearean Drama in Nineteenth-Century Spain: The Case of Manuel Tamayo y Baus’s Un Drama Nuevo.” Journal of Adaptation in Film & Performance 7, no. 1 (March 2014): 97–111. https://doi.org/10.1386/jafp.7.1.97_1.

Zeltsman, C. Ink Under the Fingernails: Printing Politics in Nineteenth-Century Mexico. University of California Press, 2021. https://books.google.com/books?id=Xu0lEAAAQBAJ.

is a recent graduate of Amherst College, where he studied Spanish and Latinx and Latin American studies. He is this year's Amherst Folger Humanities Fellow and works with the Folger's exhibition team.  — View all posts by Abner Aldarondo

Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.

Find out what’s on, read our latest stories, and learn how you can get involved.

Sign up