A couple who made headlines during the pandemic after being trapped on their third date for two and a half months in Costa Rica after travel restrictions were imposed, lift the lid on their unconventional romance in a new Netflix documentary.

New Yorkers Matt Robertson and Khani Le, now aged 34 and 32 respectively, met on Hinge in February 2020 and, after having a first date at an Indian restaurant and a second at an axe throwing venue, they decided to throw caution to the wind and jet off on a quick break.

However, a long weekend in paradise turned into a hellish scenario as they duo found their flights continuously canceled and their freedom restricted with lockdowns in place.

Thanks to Matt's love of vlogging, the entirety of their intense Costa Rican romance was recorded for posterity, with the candid footage played back in a documentary titled Longest Third Date. A pregnancy scare, car accident and bug infestation are revealed as some of the tougher parts of their trip.

The couple explain that by the fourth day of their vacation, things 'started to get real' as Covid-19 took hold around the world and a travel ban came into play.

They soon learned that they would not be able to get home on their original flight.

'We're running out of clothes to wear, we're running out of new things to talk about,' Matt recalls in the film.

While they didn't find chemistry at first, Matt said as time went on it was 'definitely intensifying' and 'there's some passion there.'

Khani, who was adamant about not falling into a relationship again, also agreed that sparks started to fly, noting that 'when you're stuck together there's not much else to do than drink and f***.'

After their hotel shut down, the couple moved into a self-catering Airbnb and said it was a surreal experience suddenly living together.

Luckily Khani, a publicist, had work to keep her busy but she said she refrained from telling her company where she was.

Meanwhile, Matt came up with 'mini dates' for their free time, with some of their activities including tango dancing and yoga classes.

Commenting on what it was like being denied access to friends and family, Khani said: 'Being so far away, I felt a little helpless knowing I couldn't fly home if I needed to.'

Matt said on the subject: 'We just felt really far away from it all watching this movie transpire, only with each other.'

With their relationship getting fast-tracked, both parties said at times it was tough.

In one clip Matt can be seen going for a run to escape the apartment. He says while jogging with his GoPro: 'It can get a little taxing, not ready for marriage any time soon that's for sure. It's not even like a normal relationship... locked up, quarantined, abroad.'

Khani also reveals that she was worried that she was 'going back to old patterns,' by living with a guy and she was determined not to 'lose myself as a person.'

'It's just not something I wanted at all,' she said of destructive relationships she had experienced in the past.

While they found each other difficult to deal with at times as they learned about their habits and behaviors, there were other things that heightened the tension.

At one point Khani ran out of birth control and had to get contraceptive from a local pharmacy, which she had been warned might be offering counterfeit medicines.

Continuing on the medical theme, she then found her body covered in bug bites following an infestation in their apartment, with her skin swollen and sore.

Topping things off, when the couple decided to go on a roadtrip following an easing of restrictions, their hire car got stuck in a lagoon.

Footage shows the vehicle slowly subsiding in the mud with a panicked Khani clambering out of the window to escape.

Luckily, another car came by and people from a neighboring village came out to help them and get the mud-caked vehicle to a local garage.

While they had tough times being cooped up together, the New Yorkers said they had more highs than lows.

Matt said of their situation: 'It was a great opportunity to get to know Khani and discover how amazing she is... Genuine, caring, thoughtful, I mean the total package.'

Echoing his sentiments, Khani mused: 'Being with Matt, he was someone who would take charge of plans - I was really starting to notice that quality in him.'

For the duration of their trip, the couple didn't discuss if they were boyfriend and girlfriend and when they found out they could finally go home on a Government-sponsored flight after 79 days, Khani said she wasn't sure if they would break up when they got back to reality.

Another stress for Khani was the possibility of being pregnant, but when the couple made it to the Costa Rican capital of San Jose, to her relief, her period started.

While both parties were unsure where they stood with each other on the romantic front, it's revealed in the documentary that they ended up moving in with each other a month after getting back.

They also traveled across the country to meet each others families.

While Matt's family knew where he was all along and who he was with, Khani had kept her antics a secret from her overly-protective father.

However, when she finally came to tell her dad everything, she said she didn't know why she hadn't told him before as his reaction was less extreme than she thought it would be.

This is yet another moment captured in the documentary.

Towards the end of the film, Matt can be seen being welcomed by Khani's family and vice versa.

Another heartwarming moment sees the couple introduce their French bulldog Banks which they got in June 2021 to celebrate their one-year anniversary.

The couple's story first came to light after Matt revealed their plight in an Instagram post, calling their quarantine abroad, 'crazy times' in a hashtag.

Their story quickly went viral with dozens of news outlets requesting interviews.

While Khani found the media attention difficult to deal with at first, it is something she has got used to and now Matt's constant vlogging doesn't bother her.

Summing up their multi-week third date, she concludes: 'It was really bitter sweet, it was more than a vacation.

'It was something I would never forget... I wasn't ready to go home and pretend that all of that didn't just happen.'

Longest Third Date is now available to watch via