A 26-year-old male driver of a moving company van belonging to Shalom Movers, was killed following a vehicular accident with a truck along the Pan Island Expressway (PIE) on Monday (17 April).

He was trapped in his seat and had to be extricated by rescuers before being conveyed to the hospital unconscious, where he eventually succumbed to his injuries and died.

The accident occurred on Monday (17 April) at about 2.35pm along the PIE heading towards Tuas before the Pioneer Road North exit.

Photos of the aftermath of the accident were shared online by the Facebook page Singapore Roads Accident.com.

Fatal Accident at PIE towards Tuas at Pioneer Rd North Exit

26-year-old driver for moving company Shalom Movers died after an accident involving a van and a trailer truck along the Pan Island Expressway (PIE) on Monday.

The police and Singapore Civil Defence Force (SCDF) said on Tuesday they were alerted to the accident involving a van and a trailer truck along the PIE towards Tuas before the Pioneer Road North exit at around 2.35pm on Monday.

The man was unconscious when taken to Ng Teng Fong General Hospital and later died from his injuries

The driver of the Shalom Movers van was found by Singapore Civil Defence Force (SCDF) rescuers trapped in his seat, and had to be extricated using hydraulic rescue equipment.

He was subsequently conveyed to Ng Teng Fong General Hospital unconscious, where he later died from his injuries from the accident.

Another person was also conveyed to the hospital although at the time of writing, no information has been made available about his/her condition.

Police investigations into the accident are also ongoing at the moment.

The chief operating officer of Shalom Movers, Gabriel Lam, spoke to The Straits Times and confirmed that one of their company’s employees had passed away in the accident.

He added that the company is in contact with the next of kin of their fallen colleague and will be providing all the necessary support and assistance during this very difficult time.

He also said that Shalom Movers will also be providing their fullest assistance with all the relevant investigations into the accident.