A driver has left viewers divided after overtaking a queue of more than 50 cars - while obeying the Highway Code.

TikTok user @dills_taxi posted  dashcam footage of himself driving down a three-lane motorway in England, where he notices a sign telling drivers that the fast lane will be closed in 400 yards.

Captioning the clip: 'Merging done right', the video shows the car remaining in the lane which is about to merge while other cars move over into the two left lanes.

A voice can be heard in the clip, who appears to be the driver, saying of the choc-a-bloc traffic: 'Look at this, all of this!' and exclaims 'Woo!' as the car cruises past the 50-odd cars going at a crawling pace.

The car remains in the third lane which is about to merge until the roadwork cones begin to appear up ahead of the vehicle.

The driver has no trouble moving across into the left lane with plenty of space between cars the closer it gets to the merge.

Someone else in the vehicle can be heard saying: 'The other car is like, what? Are we allowed to do that? Yes!'

A male voice added: 'That's my thing.' Another said: 'This is why you do it. They see it as cutting in.'

The clip has left viewers divided, but the TikTok user who posted it maintains that the actions shown in the video still follow the Highway Code.

Drivers are instructed to follow signs and road markings to get into the directed lane, the Highway Code says.

Rule 134 reads: 'In congested road conditions do not change lanes unnecessarily.

'Merging in turn is recommended but only if safe and appropriate when vehicles are travelling at a very low speed, e.g. when approaching road works or a road traffic incident. It is not recommended at high speed.'

With this in mind, some users praised the driver for his quick thinking and noting that he made the merge safely.

One wrote: 'Good on you, using the lanes and merging when its safe.'

Another added: 'That's the right way,' while another quipped: 'Yes your allowed to do that but its polite not to.'

There were plenty in the comments section of the original poster's clip, with one penning: 'There's always one', with Dill's Taxi replying: 'For following the Highway Code?'

Another wrote: 'It is cutting in, that's what causes the tail back.'

Someone else said: 'All good but if there was another 50 plus cars doing exactly the same as you would cause even worse traffic jam.'

One other person added: 'Never overtake a line of traffic at speed, and a fifth wrote: 'Use all available road read the high way code.'

Another user said: 'It's people like you that cause accidents.'