THIS CONTENT IS RESERVED FOR SUBSCRIBERS ONLY Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.  Unlimited online access to articles from across Canada with one account Get exclusive access to the Vancouver Sun ePaper, an electronic replica of the print edition that you can share, download and comment on Enjoy insights and behind-the-scenes analysis from our award-winning journalists Support local journalists and the next generation of journalists      Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.  Unlimited online access to articles from across Canada with one account Get exclusive access to the Vancouver Sun ePaper, an electronic replica of the print edition that you can share, download and comment on Enjoy insights and behind-the-scenes analysis from our award-winning journalists Support local journalists and the next generation of journalists      Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience.  Access articles from across Canada with one account Share your thoughts and join the conversation in the comments  Get email updates from your favourite authors

Start your day with a roundup of B. C.-focused news and opinion delivered straight to your inbox at 7 a.m., Monday to Friday.         There was an error, please provide a valid email address.        By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails or any newsletter. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300    Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Sunrise presented by Vancouver Sun will soon be in your inbox.   We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again

Yet, she maintains a great sense of humour. One morning earlier this month in the common area of the social housing building where she lives, Moose cracked jokes and apologized good-naturedly for her salty language.  But she was abruptly brought to tears by the prospect of leaving her home.  Moose has lived in a temporary modular housing project called Aneki on Powell Street in Vancouver’s Downtown Eastside since shortly after it opened five years ago. But along with the other 38 women living there, she now needs to find a new home, because Aneki’s operator, Atira Women’s Resource Society, has been notified the building must close next year so the property can be redeveloped.

Dawn Armstrong, left, and Marguerite Moose at Aneki, a temporary modular housing project on Powell Street in Vancouver. The lease is ending on the city-owned land next year.  /   Moving can be immensely stressful, even for someone with all of life’s privileges. For someone who has been homeless, the prospect of leaving a comfortable home one actually likes — with no idea where to go next — is distressing.  As Moose chokes up, Atira program manager Dawn Armstrong puts an arm around her and consoles her, saying: “You know we’re going to find you the best spot possible. We’re going to help you, you know we’re not going to leave you out in the dust.”    Another resident in a wheelchair nearby chimes in: “Are you sure?”  Armstrong assures her she means it. “And you neither.”      In a city where people earning a good income struggle to find affordable rental homes, it’s incredibly difficult for the most vulnerable people to find a place.

It would be an understatement to say it’s a challenge to find safe, secure, affordable new homes that meet the needs of the Aneki residents, Armstrong says. “You’re almost waiting for people to die, so that housing can become available, which is really sad.”  Aneki opened as part of a new program, called temporary modular housing, that the B. C. NDP announced in 2017 to provide homes for people who were homeless or at risk of homelessness.  The modular concept offered many benefits. Prefabricated housing units can be erected quickly on vacant land awaiting development and then moved to other empty sites as needed. The housing is durable and relatively inexpensive to build. And, unlike the old single-room occupancy hotels, or SROs, that have long provided much of the so-called “housing of last resort” to keep poor people from being homeless, the modular homes provide self-contained units with individual bathrooms and kitchenettes, instead of shared facilities.

Those little differences made a big difference for the residents.  Many of them, after years of sleeping in shelters, parks and SROs, were happy to secure a spot in a modular home. The modular housing projects offer on-site support and daily meals.  A longtime anti-poverty activist and former Vancouver city councillor, Jean Swanson, said the difference between SROs and modular homes is “night and day.” Many people who go from an SRO to modular home, she said, “feel like they’ve won the lottery.”  One downside of temporary modular housing is that first word: temporary.  Atira CEO Janice Abbott says she welcomes the development of the city-owned property where Aneki sits now, as it will mean more units of social housing than the 39 units there today, and they would be permanent, not temporary.

“We welcome that, it’s much needed. We just recognize that it’s a very real impact on women today who don’t know where they’re going to go, and we don’t know where they’re going to go,” Abbott said.  The prospect of leaving Aneki would be far less stressful, Abbott said, if the residents knew they were moving to another modular unit somewhere else, or to some other decent home.  “But many are afraid they’re going to go back to SROs. They don’t want to,” she said. “Our hearts break for the women who are feeling the real impact of losing this housing.”   Meanwhile, on the city-owned parking lot on the 600-block of Cambie Street, a 98-unit modular housing project’s lease is set to end this summer to make way for the new Vancouver Art Gallery.

In an emailed statement, the city said it acknowledges the stress that moving and uncertainty around timing can have for the building’s tenants and staff. The city says it has been working with B. C. Housing to move tenants to homes that meet their needs.  When the concept of temporary modular housing was unveiled in 2017, one benefit touted was the ability to move the homes relatively easily whenever one space was no longer available and another opened up. But there doesn’t appear to be a plan for where the Cambie modular homes will go.  The modular housing project on the site of the Little Mountain development was decommissioned in late 2021 to allow construction there to continue, including market condos and social housing. More than a year later, the modular units from Little Mountain are still in storage, B.C. Housing confirmed, and construction on the permanent social housing at the site is not expected to begin before the end of 2023.

An important piece of the housing system are so-called “shelter-rate units,” the homes available to rent for the shelter component of income assistance. These homes, like the ones at Aneki and other modular housing projects, as well as many privately and publicly owned SROs, are also known as the housing of last resort. While not glamorous, this housing is crucial because it keeps people from sleeping in parks, alleys or homeless shelters, and hopefully offers them a chance to stabilize and improve their lives.  But the number of shelter-rate units has dropped over time.  In 1992, Vancouver had 9,100 shelter-rate units. By 2005, that number had fallen to 6,350, according to a city report . In 2007, B. C.’s shelter rate increased from $325 to $375. In 2009, the city had more than 7,000 shelter-rate homes.

In the past 14 years, Vancouver’s population has grown by more than 10 per cent. But the shelter rate of $375 has remained the same and the number of shelter-rate homes in the city has continued to fall.  The city said this week it does not track the number of shelter-rate homes, but said by email that it estimates there are about 6,300 so-called supportive housing units in the city, which typically rent for the shelter rate.  City of Vancouver figures show 2,239 “net new” shelter-rate units added over the last decade, but that calculation only takes into consideration units lost and gained by redevelopment — when a 30-unit SRO is redeveloped into a 50-unit building, for example, that would be 20 net new units. But the city’s “net new” figure does not account for the many units lost to fires, rent hikes or the closure of old buildings that had shelter-rate units.

Wendy Pedersen inside one of the SROs in the Downtown Eastside.  /   “There’s quite a lot of new housing coming on stream,” said housing activist Wendy Pedersen. “But we don’t know when it’s coming, and it’s probably not going to be ‘net new’ by the time it comes. … We’re never getting ahead. There’s not enough coming fast enough.”  The B. C. government’s decision to increase the shelter rate of income assistance from $375 to $500, starting in July, will help many people, said Pedersen, executive director of the SRO Collaborative. “Eby hasn’t really gotten any credit for that (increase) and he should.”  However, Pedersen said, that comes with a caveat: The shelter-rate increase will only help if there are vacancy controls in SROs — meaning maximum allowable rent increases are tied to the unit, not the tenant. Without vacancy control, she predicts, landlords will tend to jack up the rent when units are  empty, sometimes illegally evicting tenants to do so.

Last month, Housing Minister Ravi Kahlon and Vancouver Mayor Ken Sim called a news conference to announce 330 homes for people in the Downtown Eastside to open by the end of June.  Many social service providers in the Downtown Eastside wondered what kind of homes these 330 units would be and where. B. C. Housing provided additional details to Postmedia, which showed only 20 per cent of these homes are net new units.      Premier David Eby, left, and Vancouver Mayor Ken Sim announce 90 spaces in modular housing for homeless people.  /   Eighty-nine of the 330 new homes announced in March will be modular “work-camp-style units,” which were also announced at an earlier press conference late last year with Kahlon, Sim and Premier David Eby. Unlike homes in earlier modular housing projects like Aneki, which has self-contained units, these 89 units will be congregate-style housing with shared bathrooms. Last year, the politicians announced these units would be open in March, but they have been delayed.

The Regent and Balmoral Hotels were two of Vancouver’s most notorious privately owned SROs, but provided homes that kept people off the street until they were condemned in 2017 and 2018.  After the government acquired the buildings from their private owners, there are plans now to demolish the Balmoral and convert the Regent into self-contained units, but that work has not yet begun, and people in the Downtown Eastside say the community still feels the loss of those 320 or so SRO units.   Some former Balmoral residents were moved to a nearby SRO called the Winters Hotel. But the Winters burned down last year, killing two tenants, instantly displacing 70 others and permanently removing about 92 rooms from the SRO stock.

Vancouver politicians and senior staffers have tried to prioritize retaining and producing shelter-rate housing, but it appears that it is lost as fast as it can be produced. And while Vancouver has about 27 per cent of Metro Vancouver’s population, B. C. Housing’s numbers show the city has 56 per cent of the region’s shelter-rate homes.  And a disproportionate number of Vancouver’s shelter-rate units are in one small neighbourhood: the Downtown Eastside. Many residents of the Aneki building on Powell Street say they would love to leave the neighbourhood if they could. They spoke of visiting relatives in Surrey, New Westminster and the Fraser Valley, expressing a wish to live there if they could, away from the troubles of the Downtown Eastside.

‘It was a mistake:’ Anheuser-Busch loses more than $5B amid Dylan Mulvaney controversy                 Two girls who died in central Alberta were celebrating birthday, parent in next room                Former NHL player and Richmond man dies 'playing the game he loved'

This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.