Larry Addy, who celebrated his 100th birthday on April 11, has lived in the same Noblesville home on Hannibal Street since 1949. He remembers working during his early childhood on the family farm and living through the Great Depression. He remembers the food lines and poverty around him, while his family always was able to put food on the table themselves.

“I thought we were rich back then,” Addy recalls telling his father. “Dad quickly pulled me by the arm and said, ‘don’t ever say that son.’ We have food, but we are poor.”

Addy appreciated the opportunities he had growing up and is amazed at how time has flown by and the significant changes as the world evolves. He said he always believed that with persistence and reliability, he would always find work. He really enjoyed all his jobs and did not officially retire until he was 75.

Addy loved his cars and rattled off 23 by name and year that he owned over the years. He has lived through Prohibition, the Great Depression, World War II, the Vietnam War, inflation, stock market crashes, and changes in technology and innovation of massive proportions. To him, what has not changed is that people by nature are good. Spending a little time with him will give you great perspective.

He served his country in WWII, and then was a policeman in southern Indiana. He married the “love of his life,” Betty Addy, and the couple moved to Historic Hannibal Street in the Old Second Ward of Noblesville. His working career included several manufacturing positions in Noblesville and then almost two decades delivering beer for a local distributor.

Members of the Noblesville Fire Department’s Engine 71 listened on as Addy shared some of the perks of that beer delivery job back in the day. The firemen honored Larry’s 100th year by presenting him with a commemorative Fireman’s Helmet. Adding to the celebration were local musicians John Gilmore and Scott Nelson of Noblesville. The birthday boy joined in by playing his harmonica to several songs.

“I was amazed how well he could play at 100,” Nelson said. “John and I really felt a connection to Larry and we were honored to perform for him.”

Dave Johnson, candidate for Noblesville City Council District 5, stopped over on the porch to share well wishes with Addy. Despite Addy not being in District 5, Johnson was not dissuaded from meeting “Friends of the Old Second Ward” who appreciated some of the life lessons learned.