Despite being released in 2018, Red Dead Redemption 2 remains one of the most popular story-driven action-adventure games of all time because of its seemingly unending content. Set in the harsh American wilderness of the early 1900s, you can live out your gunslinger fantasies through the game’s open world, which main story aside, is jam-packed with side quests and random encounters. In fact, Rockstar games included so many that there’s even a subset of secret side-quests, hidden encounters, or easter eggs. Whatever you want to call them, they pique our curiosity.

Some of these are all well too known, but a few, on the other hand, are just being discovered. So, read on to find out the five best-hidden encounters in Red Dead Redemption 2, that you may have missed.

If we’ve learned anything about Cowboys and Aliens, it’s that it results in a box office disaster. Red Dead Redemption 2, on the other hand, says otherwise. Just North of Heartland Overflow Reservoir is a small cabin hidden in the woods. Upon entering you’ll find quite a shocking sight. You’ll also find a letter from the leader of the now-deceased cult, which cryptically reads “At the second hour under the half moon”. If you choose to show up at the same cabin at this time, you will shockingly be greeted by a UFO soaring through the sky.

Because it’s quick, sweet, and obscure, this is one of the most intriguing hidden encounters in the game. It also led players to want to know more about this cult and if there were any additional UFO encounters to be spotted in the game. One most outlaws know about is the UFO that can be seen from the peak of Mt Shan. While there’s no concrete information that these two UFOs are connected, we suspect a third UFO may be the missing link.

Red Dead Redemption 2 is loaded with mystery and eeriness throughout the game. However, if you’re feeling especially daring, attempt to hunt the ghost of Lemoyne and hear her terrifying story. To do so, trek through the muddy west end of Bluewater Marsh at approximately 2 a.m., aimlessly searching through the darkness. Your only guide is screams and cries, and as you go closer, the apparition appears wearing a shimmering white dress.

You then watch the ghost recount and act out her final moments alive in three portions. It’s then followed by some rather haunting events and then she will vanish. It leaves the hairs on your arm sticking up and questioning if there will be any more spooky encounters with our new creepy acquaintance. Nonetheless, this is one of the best-hidden encounters because of how unsettling it is. Not to mention, how terrifying it would be to stumble upon it in-game with no preconceptions of it being in the game.

The huge world of Red Dead Redemption 2 is full of hidden spots to explore. Devil’s Cave is an unmarked area in the West Elizabeth region, located on the far left side. After some bushwhacking, you’ll come across a cave opening. Once inside the relatively modest cave transforms into a winding tunnel with numerous routes. We recommend taking a lantern to observe the many cave drawings and for general safety and guidance. Nonetheless, after climbing down a ladder, you may be shocked to come across someone else dwelling in the cave.

The man you encounter is dubbed the “cave hermit” and he’s a bit strange, to say the least; he claims to be the devil. After all, he’s been dwelling in a dark cave for who knows how long. However, if you return to his cave at a later point, he will continue to express his rage until he eventually spills the beans. Still, this hidden encounter is pretty amusing and provides a nice laugh, especially given how unusual it is.

While most hidden encounters in Red Dead Redemption 2 are one-time events that don’t require much work to uncover, this encounter is more involved and rewarding than the others. There is an unsettling message to investigate just outside the market in Saint-Denis. You’ll find five of these messages while exploring the city. They mostly talk about drinking blood and eternal life – typical vampire talk.

Once you’ve found and investigated all five, you’ll be rewarded with a new marker on your map named corpse. If you come here between 12 AM and 1 AM, you will be greeted by our Nosferatu pal, who is munching on his newest victim. You have the choice to murder the vampire after wielding a dagger that can be picked up from the victim’s body. Overall, this is one of the cooler hidden encounters in the game, and the Ornate dagger is quite the token to add to your collection.

At first, this hidden encounter appears to be perfectly typical and quite intriguing. Along the Roanoke Valley, there is a cozy looking home with a fresh hole sinching through its roof. When you enter the house, you will notice that a meteorite has crashed through the house, making quite a mess of the now-former owners. A homicidal meteorite may now be picked up in the center of what appears to used to be a dinner table. After inspecting the meteorite, you will learn that it is simply a fragment that can be sold or kept.

It also states that it is one of three pieces to be discovered. The crater containing the second piece is west of the home. You can see the destructive path it followed as it knocked over trees and wiped out a lot of ground. While two pieces have been located, a third remains undiscovered. And that’s what makes it one of the best-hidden encounters in the game, it’s still unsolved. Maybe you’ll be the one to solve this hidden encounter that has had us all puzzled since the game’s release.