The recent decision of the Modi government to remove select chapters from history textbooks of school students is worrying. Not only does it expose the BJP government’s narrow understanding of history but also uncovers its design to distract the public from real issues. Evidently, they are more interested in manipulating the past to fit a political agenda rather than improving the present and future of India. This move sets a dangerous precedent. It’s a slippery slope that can lead to the erasure of collective memory and the suppression of alternative voices and perspectives. It raises critical questions — whose history are we deleting and towards what end? And is the move anti-Hindu philosophy?

Also read: Look beyond Taj Mahal. Mughals must make way for the Cholas, Elephanta Caves in NCERT books

History is not just one story or a set of facts; it is centuries of lived experiences, cultures, music, and art, of which politics and regimes are only a small part. It belongs to all the people, and by deleting history, the government essentially denies every citizen the right to their sociocultural identity. It’s crucial to remember that every person has a stake in history, and the government must respect that. History is a dynamic narrative that is constantly being reshaped and reinterpreted by new generations. Oral history, personal narratives, and alternative sources are just as important as official records and textbooks, and the regime is not the only custodian of history.

For instance, my family served in the Mughal courts, and our everyday language, food habits, clothes, and more are interwoven with Mughal culture. These years of collective living gave birth to the composite culture that Purani Dilli is known for. By erasing the chapters on the Mughals, the government is deleting the agency and existence of the common people.

The moot point is not whether or not the Mughals were good or bad. Of course, they came as invaders and we must not forget the atrocities of any regime against the people or any threat to the sovereignty of our country. While it’s essential to acknowledge the cruelties committed by certain Mughal emperors, omitting large chunks of our history makes it hard to understand who we are as a people and defeats the purpose of recording history.

The government of a developing nation like ours, elected by an unprecedented mandate, has a lot to do. Our economy is staggering, we are failing our children by not providing them with their right to good education, our public healthcare system is in shambles, and unemployment is at an all-time high — we have endless problems with no easy solution in the foreseeable future. What do the 1.4 billion people of India gain from the erasure of Mughal history from textbooks? There is no noble intention behind this decision. The Modi government’s failure to deliver on the hopes of the people has left them with no choice but to turn to diversionary tactics by providing polarising content for primetime news.

Unfortunately, the BJP’s narrow tactics will cause much damage to the cause of Hindutva itself. Many friends in the RSS and BJP have personally expressed their disappointment with how the Modi-led BJP is neither serving the cause of Hindutva nor serving the people of the country.

The ruling party should recognise that Hindutva is not about erasing the other, but coexisting with diversity and pluralism. Selectively erasing history and imposing a single narrative not only contradicts this fundamental principle but also undermines the very foundations of Hindu philosophy.

Also read: Deleting history from NCERT textbooks is lying to children. It’s also betraying parents

Every Indian, especially the liberal Hindu must speak up against this saffronisation of education because all children in schools deserve the best quality education. Our students need textbooks that objectively and comprehensively cover history — appreciating the rich glorious past and also critically understanding the influences that shaped us. Unfortunately, the elite liberal class who have disowned tradition and faith are equally responsible for this mess.

We are a land of spiritual enlightenment and wisdom. The BJP does not need to pretend to protect anything or anyone. In fact, we need to protect ourselves and our culture from the BJP.

India does not need ill-informed leadership. Our children need a fair, accurate, and inclusive representation of India’s past, reflecting the richness and diversity of its cultural and intellectual traditions and the struggles and achievements of its people. Only then can we move forward, with confidence and dignity, secure in the knowledge that we have learned from our past and are committed to building a better future for ourselves and our children.

Abhinandita Dayal Mathur is a member of Aam Aadmi Party and served as the cultural advisor to the Delhi government from 2017-2021. She tweets @abhinandita_m. Views are personal.