Transcripts are auto-generated and thus will be be inaccurate and at times crude. We are considering building a system to allow volunteers to edit transcripts in a controlled system. No part of this transcript may be copied or referenced or transmitted in any way whatsoever.

Transcripts are auto-generated and thus will be be inaccurate and at times crude. We are considering building a system to allow volunteers to edit transcripts in a controlled system. No part of this transcript may be copied or referenced or transmitted in any way whatsoever.

Bismillah hir wa Salatu was Salam ala Rasulillah himself Allahu alayhi wa sallam were bad. Today we speak about the rich teachings of Islam when receiving good news, what is the correct behavior and etiquette? We look at the verse of the Quran Chapter 12 Jews 13 Verse 96, when Allah subhanho wa Taala had decreed for the reunion of Iacob and use of Allah Hema mean Allah He a Salah to what the slim and the sibling of use of the son of Yaku, whom historical narration suggests his name was Yehuda ashram rune came with the garment of use of alayhis salaam and placed it on his dad for tat de basura. His vision was restored. And he said to his father, that my brother Your son is alive and

he's the king of Egypt. In the tough scenes, it is mentioned that hasn't busted Rama Talalay has recorded this, that Jakob Alayhis Salam said to his son, oh my son, you are the bearer of such good news. I would like to gift you something I would like to acknowledge you but I don't have anything physical material or tangible. So I will make a prayer for you. How when Allah who are naked psychological mode, may Allah make the pangs of death easy for you. Subhanallah This is the teachings of Islam. When somebody conveys good news to you give him something and if you don't have anything, then at least make a dua for him. The famous Hadith in Bukhari and Muslim on the occasion

of taboo, the three companions llbean Omiya morale Robin Robin and cabin Malik Radi Allahu anhu, who stopped by was postponed for 50 Nights had come Mawlana hum Sona, Leila and Caribbean Malik Radi Allahu Anhu says I got up on that 51/51 morning and the land had narrowed upon us and I heard someone screaming out and yelling out of sheer behaving owning mera alayka Mundo Allah dedeker Omo Glad Tidings oh god for the greatest day in your life since your mother had given birth to you, fella magia and the lady submitted to SOTA who Yuba Sharone Nizar to Allahu Sobia *a so to Houma iya when the bearer of the good news came to me that your Toba has been accepted. I said to him, Oh,

my brother, I'm I only own the clothes that I wear. But I would like to acknowledge you because you have given this good news to me, and I'm gifting my clothes to you. May Allah bless us with this great quality. I mean, you're blind. I mean,