Sara Sampaio looked incredible as ever while attending the Celsius Oasis Vibe House event during day one of Coachella festival in Indio, California, on Friday.

The Portuguese model, 31, put her trim abs on display in a pale pink crochet bralette and tiny lime green shorts with floral details.

The Victoria's Secret Angel added height to the look with a pair of strappy white heels that showed off her dark pedicure.

The beauty wore her dark tresses cascading down in light waves, and paired the look with heart-shaped sunglasses. She accessorized with a number of delicate necklaces and a few bracelets.

Sara was joined by Famous in Love actress Georgie Flores, who matched her cool style in a red crochet top and blue jeans.

Georgie teamed her ensemble with trendy black boots and a black purse.

Like Sara she accessorized with a number of jewelry pieces, and wore a pair of round shades.

Also present at the event was Vanderpump Rules star Ariana Madix, 37, who made a cheery appearance and seemed to be putting the drama surrounding her breakup with Tom Sandoval behind her.

Her appearance came following news of her nemesis Raquel Leviss' admission to a mental health health facility.

Madix, who was left heartbroken after her lothario ex Tom's affair with Leviss, 28, was exposed last month, put on a busty display in a multicolored cut-out top, which featured sheer sleeves and also exposed her taut midriff in her latest 'revenge look.'

Madix paired this with cut-off denim hotpants which revealed her honed legs, and completed the look with white sneakers, a tan bag and tinted shades.

Her tresses were styled sleek and straight and she sported a radiant palette of make-up.

The star was joined by co-star and staunch defender Scheana Shay, 37, who strolled hand-in-hand with husband Brock Davies, 31.

The sighting comes after it was revealed Leviss checked into a facility for mental health treatment - amid the continued fallout from her affair with Sandoval.

The reality starchose to enter the voluntary facility before her fling was discovered, reports ET.

A source said: 'Raquel and her family decided before the relationship was discovered that she would enter a voluntary facility for mental health counseling.

'She was scheduled to go in pre-reunion but decided she wanted to finish her filming commitment. Bravo and production were aware and in support of her journey towards better mental health.

Leviss' rep added that she was not in a facility for substance abuse issues.