A POPULAR fast food chain is opening up four new sites this year and it's good news for chicken lovers.

Popeyes, a US fried chicken giant, launched in the UK in 2021.

The first store opened in Westfield shopping centre in Stratford, London.

During early 2023, the first new branches popped up in Rotherham, Cardiff and Glasgow.

Since then, it's also opened more takeaway-only branches in various London districts, including Bermondsey, Maida Vale and Whitechapel.

And last year, Popeyes said it would open a further 20 branches in the next year.

As part of the two dozen chains set to open, Popeyes will be opening four branches across London over the next few weeks.

The four consist of three restaurants where shoppers can dine-in or order for collection or delivery.

The first to open is a delivery kitchen in Wood Green - this is open now.

The three restaurants are:

As part of the opening, chicken fans who head to the Richmond branch on May 4 could get a free chicken sandwich and merch.

But you'll need to be quick as the offer is only available to the first 25 customers.

The Richmond restaurant will also be the first UK Popeyes to offer its breakfast menu.

Tom Byng, chief development officer at Popeyes, said: “London is naturally a key market for us, and we want to make sure no borough is underserved.”

In order to find out where your nearest restaurant is, you should use the restaurant locator tool on the Popeyes website.

It'll help you keep an eye on any new locations too.

The latest move follows the successful launch of the restaurant opening a store in Oxford which had a queue of hungry customers waiting in line from 5am on opening day.

In March 2021, Popeyes stated it planned to open 350 UK restaurants over the next 10 years.

The company is owned by Restaurant Brands International (RBI) which also owns Burger King.

In other news, Wendy's another American fast food giant is bringing the  "Biggie Meal Deal" to the UK.

The meal deal comes complete with a spicy chicken sandwich, classic chicken nuggets, small fries and a small drink.

It'll cost customers £7.99 in store, or £9.99 if they order online, though not every location will offer it on delivery.

But there is a catch as the Biggie Meal deal will only run for a short amount of time and chicken fans will need to be quick.

It's available for shoppers to order in store and will leave the UK on June 2.

Wendy's is an American fast-food chain, which is quite new to the UK. The first restaurant opened in the UK in 2021.

Wendy's made its return to the UK during the summer of 2021, by opening its first branch in Reading.

Do you have a money problem that needs sorting? Get in touch by emailing money-sm@news.co.uk