Lauren Harries is in recovery after undergoing an emergency brain surgery procedure.

The Celebrity Big Brother star, 45, was rushed into hospital for the procedure on Friday, with the cause unknown.

And tweeting from the star's official account, her mum Katy shared a picture to update her followers on Twitter on Tuesday.

She wrote: 'Yesterday they moved Lauren back to recovery, she is under close watch. She still has memory issues and confusion.

'The doctors say that she does not need another operation atm they are taking it day by day. Please pray for her and send her your love. Thank you for your kindness'.

On Monday, Katy shared that Lauren 'would have died' had she not had the surgery and explained that doctors had to perform Lauren's 'worst nightmare' by shaving her hair off.

Laying in hospital with an art book, the TV star still managed to flash a smile for the picture while bandaged up.

The caption read: 'Lauren has woken up after her brain surgery. They had to shave her hair. As you know this is Lauren's worst nightmare but she would have died if not.

'The amazing staff in the Heath Hospital have been wonderful. Thank you for your kind words, her recovery ahead. Update to follow.'

Many fans rallied to offer their words of support to Lauren, as they wished her a speedy recovery in the replies.

On Friday, Katy took to her own Twitter account to beg fans to 'send prayers' as she revealed that her daughter was undergoing  the operation.

Lauren found fame as a precocious 12-year-old antiques expert called James, who appeared on the Antiques Roadshow and Wogan, before undergoing gender reassignment surgery in 2003.

Taking to Twitter, her distraught mother penned: 'Please pray or send good thoughts to my precious daughter Lauren @Laurenharries. Who is recovering from emergency brain surgery today,' she shared on the platform.

The post was retweeted by Lauren's official Twitter page, who was last actively tweeting on the page just three days prior, liking tweets just 11 hours prior.

Whilst the cause of the surgery is not yet known, MailOnline reached out to representatives for comment at the time.

Many fans reached out with messages of support, with one writing: 'Im sorry to hear that, all the best'.

'Oh my gosh, sending all my thoughts and prayers xx,' added another.

Lauren has a famously close bond with mother Katy, often noting how supportive she is, gushing over her numerous times over her career.

The former Celebrity Big Brother star was born James Charles Harries in Surrey in 1978, being the youngest of three children.

And famously appeared on the Antiques Roadshow and Wogan as a 12-year old antiques expert.

The Welsh star has since carved out a TV career and even released a single, I Am A Woman in 2015.

These days, Lauren sells artwork via her website, with pieces ranging from £20 to £150.

She has previously spoken about her gender reassignment surgery in 2003, admitting that it was 'dangerous' at the time.

The television personality underwent the surgery, which converts male anatomy to female anatomy aged 23.

She told the Daily Star: 'It is a big operation and when I had it done all those years ago it was more dangerous as they didn’t know enough about it,' she said.

'There was talk that if I had it done I would have a heart attack in my 30s as my body wouldn’t be able to deal with it."

'To me, it was like get me in the kitchen, get a vet, get whoever, let's get it done, in those days it cost me £20,000 but I think it was more then than it is now.'