According to the Internet, Jimbo Fisher really let a couple of media outlets have it last Saturday. “Blasted” them, even. An account of the diatribe said it was so blistering, in fact, that the reporters who took the brunt of the criticism now are sure to second-guess themselves before they dare ask the Texas A&M football coach another question.

This was the kind of irresistible tease that entices countless readers to click, and one curious reader who clicked on the “Awful Announcing” headline Monday was Brent Zwerneman. You’re almost certainly familiar with his work. He's been a leading authority on the Aggies since the 1990s, and has spent most of that time covering A&M in award-winning detail for the Houston Chronicle and San Antonio Express-News.

As it turns out, Zwerneman was one of the reporters who Fisher “blasted,” but here’s the catch:

He had no idea.

Until he clicked the link, he’d made the same assumption that everyone else at the news conference after Saturday’s spring game made: That Fisher was openly, playfully, and unambiguously joking around when he saw Zwerneman holding the microphone and told him he didn’t want the Chronicle to have the final question.

“I didn’t even mention it to my wife,” Zwerneman said, laughing. “She asked how the day went, and I told her Jimbo was in a good mood.”

If this were the only silliness ever to spring from a blatant misinterpretation of an interview by click-seekers who aggregate other people’s work, we could chalk it up to one harmless mistake. But the truth is, it happens far too often, and that’s why it might be helpful for you, the reader, to ask a few questions the next time you see a faraway website offer a more salacious version of a story covered by locals.

Was this more salacious version written by someone who was there, or did his own reporting?

Does it significantly differ in tone or in substance from the work of those who were there, and did original reporting?

And if so, is there some important context missing?

Context, of course, can change everything. Another high-profile college football coach in this state is well aware of that. Last month, before the start of spring football practice at Texas, Steve Sarkisian met with the local press corps to discuss a wide variety of topics. To those who cover the team every day, the most newsworthy item to come from the press conference was Sarkisian divulging details about an injury that wide receiver Xavier Worthy had suffered last season.

In the next day’s Express-News, that was the focus of the story written by Nick Moyle, our excellent Texas beat writer. The Worthy news also was the focus of coverage by the Austin American-Statesman, the Associated Press, and multiple respected fan-oriented sites who employ full-time Texas reporters.

But that same day, here were the Longhorns headlines from around the country:

This hysteria about a supposed quarterback controversy — fanned in part by a tweet from ESPN’s NFL insider, of all people — was highly misleading, and completely overblown. At no point had Sarkisian ever even suggested that Ewers and Manning were on equal footing. He was asked about the starting quarterback job, and he responded — in typical coachspeak — that he doesn’t award any starting jobs before spring practice.

This is exactly what he said:

“They are all open right now, but I’m not worried about who’s going to be on the cover of what magazine next week. I’m more focused on each guy focusing on what they need to do to develop to be the best player they can be. Quinn has an entire year of a head start, you know? But I don’t want to hold Arch back. I want to see how far he can take this thing and what it can look like.”

To the reporters in the room, who listen to Sarkisian talk all the time, this was the predictable, uninteresting answer. It was just Sarkisian’s way of saying that he wasn’t just going to anoint Ewers as his starter, even if everyone expected the job would be his. And to absolutely no one’s surprise, Sarkisian confirmed as much after the spring game last weekend.

Astros' rally falls short and proves painful in loss to Blue Jays

For Fisher and Sarkisian, 'controversy' lost in aggregation

But in between, there was an almost entirely fictional quarterback “controversy,” created not by the media, but by media aggregators.

And look, all of us aggregate at some point. The Express-News sometimes uses other outlets’ coverage to supplement our own. I occasionally opine on games I don’t attend. It’s the way the business works, and it always has been. Even the great Dan Cook did it.

But the goal is to make sure nothing gets lost in what can become a game of telephone. That’s what happened in the “Awful Announcing” version of the A&M story.

Can Fisher often be thin-skinned when it comes to criticism? Absolutely. Has he sparred with reporters in the past? Sure. But in this case, it was all good-natured fun. He actually winked twice during his cajoling of the reporters.

And when Fisher said he preferred taking questions from a friendlier outlet than the Houston Chronicle?

“I took that as a compliment,” Zwerneman said.

According to the Internet, though, he’d been blasted.

And didn’t even know it.

Safety Bryce Anderson primed to play big role for A&M defense