A WOMAN is on the 'verge of tears' after her neighbour repeatedly stole her parking spot and even jumped on her car.

The lady, who has chosen to remain anonymous, claimed that the police had visited her neighbour in the past as they get into fights all the time.

Mumsnet user @HeadacheEarthquake claims she is at 'her wit's end' with the situation, and asked users for recommendations to help solve the issue.

She explained: "My neighbour is awful. She's stuck things to our window, taken our parking spaces hundreds of times, loudly disturbed on purpose while I've had clients over, jumped on my husband's car, trashed the outside of our houses and had countless fights in the street at all hours, one involved smashing up a car.

"Most people on this street have either called the police, reported her to her housing association, or reported her to social services.

"I can't list everything as there's just so much, but I hate the first home that we worked so hard for, and it's having a hideous effect on my mental health."

The neighbour also has two dogs, and they frequently enter the woman's garden through a gap in the fence and cause havoc.

She continued: "Two days in a row, I've asked (told) her to block it up and to come round and clear up the enormous piles these two are leaving.

"I just want to move, and she refuses to take accountability.

"I've found myself fancying leaving the side gate open so the dogs can escape next time they come into our garden, to teach her to keep them confined, or simply throw it over the fence on top of her half-finished second-hand conservatory that's been in progress for months."

Users on Mumsnet were quick to comment.

One said: "Leave the side gate open and throw the poo over into her garden."

Another said: "Leave the gate open. Not your problem then."

A third pointed out: "I would be catapulting the shit straight at her windows. I'm not even joking. Disgusting behaviour to let her dogs do that!"

This comes after a frustrated homeowner took to the internet to ask if they're in the wrong for having a neighbour's car towed away.

Plus, a frustrated motorist claims that her neighbour refused to stop parking on her drive - but she managed to get her revenge.