Hyundai has unveiled the Hyundai Elantra N facelift at Auto Shanghai 2023, sporting a new look that is more in line with the brand’s current design trend. The debut of the Elantra at Auto Shanghai also marks the “N” brand’s entry into China.

Joining the facelifted Sonata, Staria, Stargazer, all-new Kona, and Grandeur, the Elantra N now gets the same LED lightbar treatment at the front. It is based on the new Elantra standard model which was launched in Korea in March of this year (which does not sport the LED lightbar front end).

Hyundai N brand & Motorsports Vice President, Till Wartenberg said, “The new Elantra N, one of the most beloved N brand models around the world, will be a game changer in the Chinese market.”

The front of the new Elantra N has a lower stance with enlarged black trim and exterior color garnish compared to the base model. It also has bolder bumper design details. Perched at the front and the back of the car are black anodized Hyundai emblems, which will be the new design identity of the N brand, piloted by the new Elantra.

On the sides, N-specific red strips across the front and rear bumpers, including the side sill moldings, differentiate the N model from the standard. At the rear, the black bumper has been enlarged and a boat tail detail has been added to emphasize the car’s sporty image while improving aerodynamics.

Powering the new Hyundai Elantra N facelift is the same 2.0-litre turbocharges inline-4 engine that outputs 276 hp (286 hp with N Grin Shift) and 392 Nm. Paired with the engine is an 8-speed ‘N’ wet dual-clutch transmission. All power is sent to the front wheels only.

Hyundai Motor revealed that it plans to launch the new Elantra N in China in the second half of 2023. Following that, Hyundai will introduce the Hyundai Ioniq 5 N in July this year. Wartenberg said, “With all three of N brand’s core driving characteristics, Ioniq 5 N marks the beginning of a new era of high-performance electrification, and we are confident that it will set a new benchmark for sustainable high performance.”

In Malaysia, the Hyundai Elantra is available in a single variant only – the Elantra SmartStream G 1.6L Premium. The single variant costs RM168,888 and is powered by a 1.6-litre engine that outputs 123 hp (metric) and 154 Nm. The engine is paired with Hyundai’s iVT transmission, which is a CVT.

RELATED: The upcoming Hyundai Ioniq 5 N ‘hot’ EV will help you drift better