Steakholder Foods (NASDAQ:STKH – Get Rating) is one of 34 public companies in the “Food & kindred products” industry, but how does it contrast to its competitors? We will compare Steakholder Foods to similar companies based on the strength of its earnings, analyst recommendations, dividends, risk, profitability, institutional ownership and valuation.

This table compares Steakholder Foods and its competitors’ net margins, return on equity and return on assets.

This is a breakdown of current ratings and price targets for Steakholder Foods and its competitors, as reported by MarketBeat.

Steakholder Foods presently has a consensus target price of $3.00, suggesting a potential upside of 400.37%. As a group, “Food & kindred products” companies have a potential upside of 15.97%. Given Steakholder Foods’  higher possible upside, analysts clearly believe Steakholder Foods is more favorable than its competitors.

Steakholder Foods has a beta of 1.38, indicating that its share price is 38% more volatile than the S&P 500. Comparatively, Steakholder Foods’ competitors have a beta of 0.97, indicating that their average share price is 3% less volatile than the S&P 500.

This table compares Steakholder Foods and its competitors gross revenue, earnings per share (EPS) and valuation.

Steakholder Foods’ competitors have higher revenue and earnings than Steakholder Foods. Steakholder Foods is trading at a lower price-to-earnings ratio than its competitors, indicating that it is currently more affordable than other companies in its industry.

8.1% of Steakholder Foods shares are held by institutional investors. Comparatively, 54.1% of shares of all “Food & kindred products” companies are held by institutional investors. 10.5% of shares of all “Food & kindred products” companies are held by insiders. Strong institutional ownership is an indication that large money managers, endowments and hedge funds believe a stock is poised for long-term growth.

Steakholder Foods competitors beat Steakholder Foods on 7 of the 10 factors compared.

Steakholder Foods Ltd., a deep-tech food company, engages in the development of cultivated meat technologies to manufacture cultivated meat without animal slaughter. The company develops a three-dimensional bioprinter to deposit layers of differentiated stem cells, scaffolding, and cell nutrients in a three-dimensional form of structured cultured meat. It intends to license its production technology; provide associated products, such as cell lines, printheads, bioreactors, and incubators; and offer services, such as technology implementation, training, and engineering support directly and through contractors to food processing and food retail companies. The company is headquartered in Rehovot, Israel.

Receive News & Ratings for Steakholder Foods Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Steakholder Foods and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter.