An Indigenous leader has lashed Anthony Albanese over the Voice referendum saying his community hasn't 'been told anything' about it.

Uncle Francis Xavier Kurrupuwu, an Elder from the Tiwi Islands which sit 85km off Darwin's shore at the top end of the Northern Territory, said he and his community are 'completely confused' about what the Indigenous Voice to Parliament will entail.

'We haven't been told anything,' he told news.com.au.

'It's disgraceful. They say what they want to say without any consultation in the community.'

Mr Kurrupuwu, who was elected to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly from 2012 to 2016 as a Country Liberal Party member, said the lack of information had been 'shocking' and demanded the Prime Minister visit remote communities.

'We want to meet Mr Albanese,' he said.

'I expect them to be on the ground, they need to be consulting at a grassroots level. I've been involved in organisations and it is the same old thing.

'We are still left in the darkness as Aboriginal people in the Territory. I don't think that will change.'

Mr Kurrupuwu indicated that he would not vote for the Voice because he did think it would lead to concrete improvements for Indigenous people in 'education, health and employment'.

A spokesman for the Tiwi Land Council, where 80 per cent of the 2600 people who live on the islands are Indigenous, said it had yet to develop a formal position on the Voice.

The council also said they expected information sessions to be held on the Tiwi Islands later in the year.

Lingiari Labor MP Marion Scrymgour, whose electorate includes the Tiwi Islands, said there was plentiful information available about the Voice and the proposal was the result of extensive consultation.

'To say there has been no consultation or information is like saying there's no water in the sea.' Ms Scrymgour said.

Ms Scrymgour promised there will be more face-to-face conversations with those in remote communities and she had recently visited the Tiwi Islands to talk about the Voice and would do so again soon.

One of the strongest campaigners against the Voice Northern Territory CLP Senator Jacinta Nampijinpa Price told the ABC on Tuesday that remote land councils had little understanding of the Voice.

'I know executive members of land councils, some of them aren't necessarily literate, and this is the basics we have to go back to,' she said.

'There's a whole lot of work that needs to be done before getting to the broader discussion. Until we do that, we can't improve the situation on the ground.'

During a sometimes testy interview with Hamish Macdonald, Senator Price said 'even media ... doesn't listen to people in remote communities because it's difficult to have people from remote communities on air on a radio program because of the language barrier that exists'.

Sometime between October and December this year Australians will be asked by referendum to approve the establishment of the Voice as a recognition of Indigenous peoples in the Constitution.

The Voice will establish a body that can 'make representations to the parliament and the Executive Government of the Commonwealth on matters relating to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples'.

A referendum can only be carried when it is approved by an overall majority of Australians and also is voted for by a majority of states.

What is the Voice?  An elected body of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander individuals who would give advice to the federal government. Only Australians of Indigenous heritage would be able decide the representatives. To be established, a referendum would be held and would require a majority of votes in a majority of states.Unlike the old Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Commission - formally abolished in 2005 with bipartisan support - the Voice would be enshrined in the Constitution. While Parliament would decide the make-up of the Voice, it would not have the power to abolish it without taking the issue to another referendum. The Voice would give advice to the cabinet and executive government about legislation, particularly proposed laws that affect Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders.The Uluru Statement from the Heart - based on the input of 250 Aboriginal leaders - in 2017 called for a the 'establishment of a First Nations Voice enshrined in the Constitution'.The Indigenous Voice Co-design Process Final Report was given to former Liberal prime minister Scott Morrison's government in 2021.It was co-authored by Tom Calma, a human rights activist, and Marcia Langton, an academic.