A TEAM GB cyclist feared he would be murdered when he was attacked by masked robbers who stole his £15,000 bike.

Alex Richardson was training in Richmond Park, South West London, when he was ambushed by the machete-wielding thugs.

The robbers, who were on stolen mopeds, left the professional cyclist terrified he would be killed during the horror in October 2021.

One of the thieves - a 17-year-old boy - has now been sentenced to 12  months in youth custody after admitting two counts of robbery, the Evening Standard reports.

The teen, who was aged 15 at the time, also pleaded guilty to attempted robbery and possession of criminal property.

Speaking after the sentencing, Alex said: "This crime made me fear for my life; I thought I could be murdered at that moment and it continues to cause feelings of anxiety, stress, sleepless nights and a fear to my family’s safety to the point we have hired overnight security at our property on more than one occasion.

“I have a huge fear of riding my bike now on open roads in the UK as this could happen again at any time.

"My children have also been affected, they have had disturbed sleep and are traumatised by what they saw in the evening with my physical injuries.

"No one should have to feel this way. I wouldn’t want anyone to go through what I have.”

The cyclist posted horror pictures of his injuries on Instagram following the attack.

He said he was just finishing his training when the four men followed him on the stolen mopeds through the park and into East Sheen.

Alex told how he was "riding full speed" to reach a cafe when one slammed a moped into him at 37mph.

He revealed he was "dragged" on the ground along with his bicycle for 100m.

Alex added: "After this they pulled out a 15 inch machete at which point I thought better and let the bike go.

"I’m pretty cut up and bruised with a swollen hip but tomorrow is another day.

"Please be careful in the area and note this is becoming a common occurrence in parts of London."

Bizarrely, the teen attacker was caught as he walked into a cafe where police officers were figuring out how to solve the crime.

He had a machete tucked down his trousers and a balaclava and £1,500 in cash on him.

As well as the October charges, he also admitted two further offences after a man was confronted for his bike in a failed robbery.

The teen was also involved in the robbery of a £5,000 bicycle where a man was threatened with a machete.