There was hope and optimism in the air at Memorial Gardens Sunday afternoon.

Fans of all ages were outside Memorial Gardens before Game 2 of the  North Bay Battalion's series against the Barrie Colts. (Eric Taschner/CTV News Northern Ontario)Ahead of Game 2 of the North Bay Battalion's second-round series match-up against the Barrie Colts, fans of all ages were making noise in some pre-game festivities.

From the sizzling sound and smells of the barbecue to the passionate fans trying to chant their team to victory.

"I love hockey. The fans come out and support our boys," said fan Sherri White.

Gabriel Lalonde came all the way from Montreal to catch his favourite team on the ice.

"I've been following them. I've loved the Battalion ever since they came back into town," he said.

The Ontario Hockey League (OHL) playoffs are in full swing and the passionate fans of the Troops' seventh man this series.

Ahead of the game, the team hosted a pre-game party with drinks, face painting, music and a barbecue.

"We've had almost packed out seats. We're all going there and cheering loud and proud," said fan Rosalee Turcotte.

"We've got the best fans in North Bay."

Despite a difficult 3-2 overtime loss to the Colts in Game 1, there's not a fan here worried as they believe their determined Troops can turn the series around before two tough games in Barrie.

“It was a tough one to take," said Fab Owen Landry.

"They gotta turn it around and get one at home."

“We've got a good team. The defence is playing good and our goalie is one of the best in the league," said Turcotte.

There was hope and optimism in the air at Memorial Gardens Sunday afternoon ahead of the Battalion's Game 2 against the Barrie Colts. (Eric Taschner/CTV News Northern Ontario)It's quite clear these fans are passionate and plan on using their voices to carry their troops all the way.

"Go troops go," a group of fans chanted.

The puck dropped for Game 2 at 2:00 p.m.

For more information on the Battalion's playoff run, visit their Facebook page.

Battalion fans of all shapes and sizes from all over were on hand to cheer on their team Sunday afternoon. (Eric Taschner/CTV News Northern Ontario)