This segment – The Catch – in our award-winning PBS program will keep you in the know. This month, stories about national regulations on PFAS, volcanic tourism in the Great Lakes and a preview of special Earth Month programs from Nova.

First, a look at proposed nationwide standards on PFAS from the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency. If implemented, the rules would limit the levels of toxic forever chemicals in drinking water to trace amounts. MLive reporter Garret Ellison has been following the story.  “It’s an important moment in public health in the United States. It’s the first time…the EPA has proposed to regulate a drinking water contaminant in decades,” Garret said.

Next, we head to the Lake Superior shoreline where journalist Jacqueline Kehoe highlights the little-known volcanic history of the region. Jacqueline explains that approximately “1.1 billion years ago, the country was ripping apart and it was happening right through the Midwest…and the broken part of the country was right in Lake Superior.” The massive “rip” stretches 1,300 miles and is known as the Midcontinent Rift. The volcanic rocks it left behind are distinct, and still visible at multiple sites along Lake Superior’s shoreline. Jacqueline says enthusiasts can find signs of the region’s prehistoric volcanic activity at Michigan’s Porcupine Mountains Wilderness State Park, the Keweenaw Peninsula, Wisconsin’s Cooper Falls and Interstate Parks; and the Apostle Islands.

Finally, NOVA Senior Producer Caitlin Saks talks about the special programming happening in honor of Earth Month. The long running PBS show has recently announced a new initiative called “Climate Across America.” Caitlin says that this is just the latest in a long line of NOVA content about our changing planet. “This project was built around trying to create and foster really engaging conversations across the country about this issue…we feel that it is our role to help inform the public about what is really going on and help foster productive discussions,” said Caitlin. The first program, Weathering the Future, looks at five different regions across the United States and how those places are adapting to the effects of climate change. The second program, “Chasing Carbon Zero,” explores the ambitious emission goals recently set by the US government, and how we plan on achieving them.

Find all The Catch segments HERE.