Nation Wants To Know

Nation Wants To Know

Pawar vs Pawar LIVE: Ajit Pawar to address media; NCP Chief Whip and 3 MLAs back him

Pawar Vs Pawar LIVE: Ajit Pawar To Address Media; NCP Chief Whip And 3 MLAs Back Him

The Supreme Court's hearing on the batch of pleas seeking legal recognition of same-sex marriages has begun. Amid the speculation that Ajit Pawar will align with BJP in Maharashtra, former CM Ajit Pawar has removed the party logo image from his Twitter handle. Read all the LIVE updates of India news here

NCP MLAs back Ajit Pawar, says 'will stand with Dada'

NCP MLA Shekhar Nikam told Republic TV, 'We stand with Dada'. While another leader of NCP, Anil Patil said, "Whatever will be his decision, we will be with him". Umesh Patil stated, "All NCP MLAs stand with Ajit Pawar. We stand with him".

Amid the NCP coup, Ajit Pawar will be holding a press conference and addressing the media in connection with the recent speculations.

In an exclusive conversation with Republic TV, Shiv Sena leader Krishna Hegde stated that the party will be happy if Ajit Pawar will join them. Hedge said, "Whatever decision has been taken it's on a higher level. Eknath Shinde must be aware of whatever is happening. Ajit Pawar might be feeling suffocated in NCP. If Ajit Dada wants to join BJP along with his MLAs, we will be happy to welcome him".

NCP asserts 'We are with Sharad Pawar and Ajit if part of the party'

NCP spokesperson is non-committal amid mega NCP coup speculation. NCP spokesperson Brijmohan Shrivastav says “We are with Sharad Pawar and Ajit if part of the party. While another party leader refuted the claims and stated that Dada hamara neta hai'

Amid the political crisis in Maharashtra, Assembly Speaker Rahul Narwekar has cut short his Japan visit and will be returning to the state.

Amid the buzz over the BJP-NCP alliance, about 40 MLAs from Nationalist Congress Party MLAs have reportedly given their support to party leader Ajit Pawar. As per the media reports, 40 NCP MLAs from Maharashtra have given their consent signatures to Ajit for reportedly extending support to the ruling Shiv Sena-BJP alliance government in the state.  The reports further added that these consent signatures will be presented to the Governor at an appropriate time.

According to sources, Ajit Pawar is at the Vidhan Bhavan and NCP leaders-- Shekhar Nikam and Dharmarao Atram are to meet the former. Sources added that Sharad Pawar himself has called the party leaders and asked them to stay intact. READ MORE

Senior advocate Kapil Sibal says that States should be heard in the matter. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta apprises the SC that the Centre has filed a petition raising the preliminary objection on the maintainability of the plea. SG Tushar Mehta says the debate which is to happen is about the creation or conferring of the socio-legal institution and whether it should be done by the forum of the court or parliament. CJI DY Chandrachud says we will hear the Centre's submission on that at a subsequent stage.

SG Mehta tells that there is no legal lacuna in the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act and the question is not of granting a socio-legal sanction. He apprises the court that it has been clarified that none will discriminate against transgender persons. There are provisions of reservation for transgender, he adds.

Chief Justice of India says no such thing as an absolute concept of biological man and woman. SG reiterates to first take up the Centre's plea raising preliminary objection on the petition seeking recognition of same-sex marriage.

Amid the speculation that Ajit Pawar will align with BJP in Maharashtra, former Deputy CM Ajit Pawar has removed the party logo image from his Twitter handle.

All this talk is only in media: Sharad Pawar amid speculations of Ajit Pawar's alleged rebellion

Amid speculations of Ajit Pawar's alleged rebellion, NCP chief Sharad Pawar said, "Ajit Pawar is busy with election-related work. All this talk is only in the media."

CBI's notice to TMC leader Abhishek Banerjee in abeyance till further order from SC

CBI serves a fresh notice to TMC National General Secretary Abhishek Banerjee for the order for appearing before the agency is kept in abeyance till further order from Supreme Court.

SC hearing: Advocate Rohatgi takes the court through the history of same-sex marriages across the globe

Sr Adv Mukul Rohatgi: My brief is to say that we want a declaration. We want the right to marriage. Once that happens society will recognise us. As even after 377, we are stigmatised in public places when we walk hand in hand. The concept of marriage has changed in the last decades

Earlier we had child marriage, men used to marry more than one woman. Women's rights to inherit property have changed  Constitution is a living document. I am talking about the Hindu marriage act and the special marriage act.

If we have the same rights as the heterosexual group the we also have the same right as the right to marriage.. In 2022 the US enacted the respect of marriage act to protect the validity of same sex marriages then came Dipika Singh's judgment... queer relationship was dealt with and held to be a family unit too

If you are following the same dictionary follow the same version, not a 50-year-old version

The Supreme Court of India began the hearing of a batch of 20 petitions seeking to legalise same-sex marriage. A five-judge Constitution bench comprising Chief Justice DY Chandrachud, Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Justice Ravindra Bhat, Justice Hima Kohli, and Justice PS Narasimha are currently hearing the matter.

SC defers plea against scrapping of 4% Muslim quota in K'taka till April 25

The Supreme Court adjourns the hearing for April 25 of the petitions challenging the scrapping of the 4% OBC quota for Muslims in Karnataka. Karnataka govt seeks adjournment and assures SC that no fresh appointments or admissions would be made based on Karnataka’s order scrapping 4% OBC reservation for Muslims till the next date of hearing.

Conman Sukesh Chandrashekhar to be produced in Court today

Conman Sukesh Chandrashekhar was brought to Delhi's Patiala House court in connection with a money laundering case.

#WATCH | Conman Sukesh Chandrashekhar brought to Delhi's Patiala House court in connection with a money laundering case. pic.twitter.com/jByPKsgl1k

— ANI (@ANI) April 18, 2023

The Chhattisgarh police received information about an IED planted by Naxalites in Rajpur village of Chhotedongar Police Station of Narayanpur. DRG and BDS teams reached the spot. During the search, an IED weighing about 5 kg was recovered which was destroyed on the spot by following the security standards. All the soldiers are safe. Searching is going on in the area: Police

SC to take up a plea for early hearing in Atiq Ahmed murder case

Supreme Court agrees to hear on April 24 a plea seeking to constitute an independent expert committee under the chairmanship of a former Supreme Court judge to inquire into the killing of gangster-politician Atiq Ahmed and his brother Ashraf amid police presence. A PIL was filed in the top Court demanding an inquiry into the custodial killings of Atiq and Ashraf.

In the PIL, a probe has been sought under the supervision of a retired judge of the Supreme Court.

In the petition, a request has been made to investigate 183 encounters in Uttar Pradesh since 2017 by an expert committee under the supervision of a retired judge of the Supreme. Advocate Vishal Tiwari has filed a petition in the Supreme Court.

India records 7,633 new cases and 6,702 recoveries in 24 hours; the active caseload stands at 61,233.

A 2.5-year-old child died after falling into a pit dug up to install a water pipeline by Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) in Magadi. FIR has been registered against the BWSSB engineer and contractor.

No warning signs were installed in the area and safety measures were also not taken near the site by the workers

3 Shooters Who Killed Atiq And His Brother Ashraf Inspired By Lawrence Bishnoi: Sources

As per the sources, the three men who allegedly shot Atiq Ahmed, and his brother Ashraf confessed during the interrogation that they were inspired by jailed gangster Lawrence Bishnoi. The operation to kill Atiq was planned by Sunny Singh who watched interviews and videos of Bishnoi.

Arvind Kejriwal hits back at BJP over Gopal Italia's arrest in Surat

The BJP is working on the sole agenda of finishing the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal alleged on Monday, reacting to police action against his party leader Gopal Italia in Gujarat.

Earlier in the day, Italia was arrested in connection with a case and was subsequently granted bail by a court in Surat. Police had registered the case against the former Gujarat unit chief of the AAP in September last year for allegedly using defamatory words against state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief CR Paatil and Gujarat minister Harsh Sanghavi as well as calling BJP workers "goons" in a video message uploaded on social media platforms. READ MORE

G20 delegates take part in a Yoga session in Panaji Goa, ahead of the 2nd Health Working Group Meeting today. MoS Health Dr Bharati Pravin Pawar appealed to everyone to practice Yoga each day for a healthy life, says

G20 delegates take part in a Yoga session in Panaji Goa, ahead of the 2nd Health Working Group Meeting today

I appeal to everyone to practice Yoga each day for a healthy life, says MoS Health Dr Bharati Pravin Pawar. pic.twitter.com/NsvYgAHAJC

— ANI (@ANI) April 18, 2023

A three-storeyed rice mill building collapsed in Karnal where several rice mill workers feared of being trapped under debris. Workers used to sleep inside the building. Fire brigade, police and ambulance have reached the spot. Rescue operations are underway.

DC Karnal Anish Yadav informed A total of 24 people have been affected out of which 20 are injured and 4 are dead. Around 150 workers were inside the building when the incident took place. The injured have been admitted to a hospital.  Prima facie we found that the building had some defects. A committee will be formed to investigate the incident. Legal action will be taken against the rice mill owners.

Karnal SP Shashank Kumar informed that no one is missing now based on the list of worker. The NDRF and SDRF teams will arrive soon.

#WATCH | Haryana: Several rice mill workers feared being trapped under debris after a three-storeyed rice mill building collapsed in Karnal. Workers used to sleep inside the building. Fire brigade, police and ambulance have reached the spot. Rescue operations underway. pic.twitter.com/AFzN9HDPYw

— ANI (@ANI) April 18, 2023

Fire breaks out at refined oil storage godown in Patna

In Bihar, a massive fire broke out at a refined oil storage godown in Bihar's Patna as huge smog engulfed the area. Operation to douse down the fire is currently underway.

#WATCH | Fire breaks out at refined oil storage godown in Bihar's Patna; Operation to douse the fire is underway pic.twitter.com/TI4km8JpWg

— ANI (@ANI) April 18, 2023

NIA takes over probe into pro-Khalistan provocation at Indian Mission in London

A month after the Indian national flag flying atop the Indian High Commission in London was grabbed and pulled down during a provocation by pro-Khalistan activists, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) has taken over the case to investigate the matter, as per the sources.

According to reports, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) Counter Terrorism and Counter Radicalization (CTCR) division handed over the case to the NIA a few days back.

An FIR was registered based on the orders of the MHA as the anti-terror agency initiated the probe. The agency took over the case from Delhi Police, which registered an FIR in the matter under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA).

The decision to hand over the case to the NIA was taken by the Home Ministry following a meeting with UK representatives earlier this week, the sources indicated. A special team of the NIA, including a Deputy Inspector General rank officer, may visit London "very soon", said a source privy to the development.

Flight 6E 203 from Mumbai had a tail strike while landing at Nagpur on April 14, however, no passengers were injured. The aircraft was declared grounded at Nagpur airport for assessment and repairs. The incident is being investigated, IndiGo Airlines released a statement.

Apple's first India store to open in Mumbai today

Apple's first India store set to open in Mumbai's Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) today. People stand in queues outside the store before its opening.

Maharashtra | Apple's first India store set to open in Mumbai's Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) today. People stand in queues outside the store before its opening. pic.twitter.com/vISeWrwSTD

— ANI (@ANI) April 18, 2023

The death toll in a suspected hooch tragedy in Bihar's Motihari (East Champaran district) climbed to 29 on Tuesday amidst a political blame game in the state. The deaths took place in the Turkauliya, Harsiddhi, Sugauli and Paharpur areas of the district, officials said. Some ten people have been arrested in connection with the sale and transportation of illicit liquor.

Russia Asserts To Rely On Trusted Partners; EAM Jaishankar Calls To Fix Trade Imbalance

External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Russian Deputy Prime Minister Denis Manturov on Monday attended the inaugural session of "India-Russia Business Dialogue" 2023 and met representatives of Russian and Indian businesses in New Delhi  The participants present at the business forum discussed issues to further enhance Russian-Indian practical cooperation, including within the Intergovernmental Commission (IGC).

Manturov, who arrived in the national capital on Monday spoke about the measures taken to strengthen Russia's "technological sovereignty". He noted that there is no goal to completely replace everything. "We will rely on trusted foreign partners. We will make every effort to expand our cooperation ties to exchange competence and experience in the most promising technological areas," he said. READ MORE

India celebrates key milestone of holding a hundred G20 meetings with its inclusive policy approach

India on Monday with its inclusive and action-oriented policy processes at the heart of its agenda celebrated a key milestone of hosting its 100th meeting under its G20 Presidency with the meeting of Agricultural Chief Scientists (MACS) in Varanasi.

The G20, or Group of Twenty, is an intergovernmental forum of the world's 20 major developed and developing economies, making it the premier forum for international economic cooperation.

With more than 12,300 delegates from over 110 nations, the in-person participation in India's G20 Presidency is the largest ever hosted by any G20 country so far. Throughout India's Presidency, more than 200 meetings in around 60 cities across India are still being planned, making it the widest geographical spread.

India's G20 presidency inclusive pan-India approach, centred on Jan Bhagidari or citizen's engagement has so far covered over 41 cities, with around a dozen meetings held in the North Eastern part of the country. The meetings have also been successful in showcasing India's incredible natural and architectural beauty through excursions, side events and more than 1500 cultural events with around 7000 artists performing.

Mumbai: Massive fire breaks out at a scrap compound in Mankhurd

A massive fire broke out at a scrap compound in the Mankhurd area. Fire tenders present at the spot, and efforts to douse the fire are underway. More details awaited.

#WATCH| Mumbai: Massive fire broke out at a scrap compound in Mankhurd area. Fire tenders present at the spot, and efforts to douse the fire underway. More details awaited pic.twitter.com/lz4pkDA989

— ANI (@ANI) April 18, 2023