Rowanberries (rowan berries), or mountain-ash berries, are frequently overlooked when it comes to recipe-making, but they've been part of the human diet since ancient times! Rowan berries can be used to make rowanberry jelly, wine, shrub, and more!

If you enjoy foraging, you'll want to read this article and keep an eye out for these uniquely bitter but totally edible berries!

A word of caution, before foraging for berries, it is a good idea to read up on the subject, take a foraging class, and have a plant identification app on your phone when you're out foraging. The one I use is called Picture This.

If you're in the Northwest, I highly recommend getting a copy of Edible & Medicinal Plants of the Rockies. It's the one I use and I love it!

Rowan or mountain-ash shrubs or trees (sorbus aucuparia) are part of the rose family. These deciduous plants produce small, acidic fruits known as "rowanberries" or "rowan berries."

As these small fruits grow in dense clusters, they're actually technically pomes, (a single fruit, similar to pomegranates), rather than berries. These fruits thrive in cold climates. They originated in Europe and can be found in Scandinavia as well as other cold climates throughout Europe. They also grow in parts of North America.

The delicate white flowers emerge in spring and eventually turn into yellow-orange fruit. The berries become crimson in color when fully ripened.

Rowan berries have a tiny star on the bottom, which some describe as a pentagram. In mythology, the mountain ash is said to be a magical tree that protects against witches and evil spirits. Mountain ash wood is even used to make magic wands!

Although rowanberries can be consumed raw, they may make you sick as they contain cyanide-related compounds and are considered semi-toxic straight off the branch. While green berries are very bitter, ripened red berries tend to be a little sweeter and are used to make jams, pies, marmalades, wine, ale, shrub, and even soups!

Furthermore, the berries can also be dried and ground into a flour. In Europe, the flour was fermented and used to make liquor. There's even Rowan Berry candy! You can purchase Fazer Pihlaja "Fox Candy" Classic Finnish Rowan Berry Marmalade Candy on Amazon.

While the berries begin to ripen around late summer to early fall, it is said that rowan berries should not be picked until after the first frost. While this is generally true, it's a bit misleading - you don't want to pick them right after the first frost, as they will likely still be incredibly bitter.

You may want to wait until several frosts have passed before harvesting rowan berries in order to pick them when they're at their sweetest.

As their name suggests, mountain ash trees and shrubs can be found in mountainous regions, however, you may not need to plan a drive to the mountains to pick them!

Here in Montana, you can find mountain ash trees in parks and along the roads and river banks. Because of their beautiful foliage and bright colorful fruit clusters, they have an ornamental value as well, and make an excellent addition to any garden!

Mountain ash/rowan berries are pretty distinct and not easily confused with too many other plants. However, there is one plant that has red berry clusters that may look a bit similar to rowan berries to the amateur forager.

Actaea, commonly called baneberries can be found in the mountainous regions of North America. The attractive red berries grow in clusters and look very appealing. However, baneberries are poisonous to humans as they contain cardiogenic toxins.

The most poisonous parts of the plant are the roots and red berries. Consuming as little as 6 berries can result in respiratory issues and even cardiac arrest! However, due to their extremely bitter flavor, it's unlikely that anyone would attempt to eat more than one.

Although baneberry leaves have jagged edges similar to that of mountain ash, their shape is quite different. Mountain ash has pinnately compound leaves that grow in pairs with a single leaf at the end of the branch. The leaves turn a beautiful golden color in the fall.

Another distinguishing factor between the two plants is their size difference. The average height of a baneberry bush is 1'-2.5', unlike mountain ash, which can grow to be 15'-30' tall!

Rowanberries are thought to have many health benefits. Native Americans would boil the berries and/or the bark and branches from the mountain-ash shrub to create medicinal tea. In some cases, they would simply inhale the steam which was said to treat headaches and sore chests. Some of the other supposed medicinal benefits include:

* Soothing sore throats, colds, and inflammation of the respiratory tract.

Rowanberries do have some culinary uses, but they are almost always cooked with sugar to improve their bitter and astringent flavor. You'll find that a lot of rowan recipes include apples, which mellow the tannins in the fruit and tame some of their bitter flavor. This Rowan & Apple Jelly is a good example.

You can also use rowan berries to make Rowan Berry Wine. However, it has quite a bitter aftertaste. Yes, I'm speaking from experience!

When making wine, a better option is to mix the rowan berries with other fruit. I recently bottled a wine that I made with a mixture of rowan berries, cranberries, and black hawthorn. While it had a slightly bitter aftertaste, it was actually quite tasty!

Besides wine, you can also infuse the berries in alcohol to make various cocktails. Or maybe you'd prefer to make rowan berry syrup to add to your cocktails? It can take the place of bitters!

If you want to cook with the berries, give this Rowan Berry, Apple, and Pumpkin Soup a go! I haven't tried it, but it does sound promising.

Although I've made rowanberry jelly and wine, I think my favorite way of using the rowanberries is to make rowanberry shrub! It's really easy to make and has a lot of health benefits. Since only a few tablespoons of shrub are mixed with a glass of club soda, the bitterness is not as noticeable.

Step 1: Add 1 cup of clean rowan berries to a quart-sized mason jar. Cover with 1 cup sugar and 1 cup apple cider vinegar. Shake to incorporate, then date and label the jar. Allow the rowan berries to macerate for one week.

Pro Tip: Dehydrated orange slices, cinnamon, cardamon pods, ginger, and cloves can be added to the jar as well to enhance the flavor of the shrub.

Step 2: Shake the jar daily for one week, then strain into a clean mason jar.

To serve, pour 2 tablespoons of rowanberry shrub into a tall glass filled with ice and top with club soda or carbonated water. Stir to combine and enjoy!

* Rowanberries pair well with apples, oranges, pears, strawberries, nutmeg, ginger, cinnamon, clove, honey, basil, and peppermint.

* When foraging rowanberries, a pair of pruning shears and a canvas bag come in very handy for clipping the clusters from the tree and transporting them back home.

* Clean the rowanberries to remove insects and debris then freeze them in freezer bags until you are ready to make something wonderful with them.

Love this recipe? Please leave a 5-star 🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟rating in the recipe card below & a review in the comments section further down the page.

Stay in touch with me through social media @ Instagram, Pinterest, TikTok, and Facebook. Don't forget to tag me when you try one of my recipes!