When Mathew Fagan and Kelvin Lim bought their Melbourne home back in 2016, it was a simple California bungalow that couldn’t be more different to the abode it is today.

‘We’d lived in the area for 15 years and were looking for a site where we could build an inner-city sanctuary,’ Mathew says. ‘The quiet location offered a blending of old and new Collingwood.’

The couple approached the project with a very specific aesthetic in mind. They wanted to create something that felt industrial, yet botanical, and engaged HA Architecture and landscape design studio Peachy Green to bring this unique vision to life.

It took about two and half years to rebuild the property from the ground up, but this also gave them the opportunity to focus on the home’s sustainability. Double-glazed windows, solar panels, and a 5000 litre rainwater tank were all included to minimise its environmental impact.

‘We used lush green spaces to offset the brutal materials of the building,’ Kelvin explains. ‘The concept was also a nod to the surrounding blend of residential homes and historically industrial precinct.’

The home’s striking facade sets the tone for the home inside, featuring blockwork walls, metal cladding, and steel details. The couple say the dark and moody interiors have made it the perfect place for relaxation and contemplation.

The living spaces are also enhanced by the surprisingly ‘lush green spaces’ that envelope the house, while sliding doors, wide windows, and skylights make room for plenty of natural light. ‘Between the two courtyards and back garden, we sometimes forget we’re in Collingwood,’ Mathew says.

For inner-city living, the vendors say the location is ‘unbeatable.’ They’ve loved being around some of Melbourne’s best food and wine haunts, naming Lune, Napier Quarter, Smith St Bistrot, and Cutler & Co as some of their nearby favourites.

‘The home is custom built for a professional executive couple who love to entertain,’ Kelvin says. ‘We recently decided to start a family, and as two busy dads with an 11-month old son, it’s time to move into a family home that suits the next chapter of our lives.’

82 Sackville Street, Collingwood is listed for sale with David Sanguinedo and Rick Daniel from Nelson Alexander Fitzroy and will go to auction on Saturday May 6 at 1:30pm.