Skip to main content

What are you looking for?

Geneva Call is a neutral and impartial non-governmental organisation dedicated to promoting respect for international humanitarian norms in armed conflict and other situations of violence. Geneva Call’s mission is to ensure that armed groups and de facto authorities respect International Humanitarian Law and basic humanitarian principles in the areas where they fight or they control.

Geneva Call consists of many diverse nationalities, cultures, languages and opinions. Geneva Call is an inclusive working environment for all its staff. Applications are particularly encouraged from all qualified candidates without distinction on the grounds of race, colour, sex, national origin, age, religion, disability, sexual orientation, and gender identity.

Adapt HR set up according to funds available with the support of Operations Coordinator. Anticipate needs to increase or reduce set up.

Responsible of ensuring that all projects and programmes in the country are being adequately financed and has the budget monitoring responsibility.

Actively contribute to Geneva Call's public communication, raising awareness about the work of the organization to reinforce GC influence, access and response.

Ensure that durable and sustainable partnerships are created and developed, in line with Geneva Call's partnership policy, with other organizations (local) to facilitate and strengthen the work of Geneva Call in the country.

Maintain and strengthen Geneva Call's role as a neutral, impartial and independent humanitarian actor, positioning the organization and its operations within the country to obtain maximum access to AGDAs, influential stakeholders and affected populations.

Operational communication is reviewed with the communication unit for dissemination in the field context.

Analyse regional and country level public and private donor strategies and identify and create multiyear funding opportunities for Geneva Call's programming in the Country.

Builds effective working relationship with country based bodies, the civil society, donors, diplomats and international organization with relevant mandate.

Contribute to Geneva Call's public communication & advocacy effort about the work of the organization in a way that reinforces influence, access and protection response.

Develops a country stakeholder analysis, engagement plan and works with implementing partners in the region.

Ensure that Geneva Call is visible and recognised by regional and country donors as key and indispensable protection actor.

Establishes areas for possible funding opportunities and develop concept notes and proposals for potential donors as well as costing efforts

Ensure appropriate country project expenditures are in line with financial plans and compliant with internal and donor procedures

Ensures the development and submission of qualitative donor grant narrative reports and budgets;

Supports in the management of grants by planning and controlling the grant resources in line with Geneva Call's grant manager and ensuring compliance with the donor regulations.

Responsible for the setting and management of an effective and efficient liaison office, including the direct line management of positions within that structure; ensures that the liaison office includes all the key support functions needed in the East Africa region and that it is supportive to the country programs and regional programs.

Provides leadership and technical supervision to the rproject officers and support staffs.

Facilitates the provision of shared services of the offices within the country

Ensure a conflict sensitive design, implementation, monitoring, review, and evaluation of Geneva Call's programs, in line with Geneva Call programmatic guidelines with a focus on planning and results based management.

Participates in and provides support to country missions in assessments, planning and implementation of regional activities.

Ensure field structures are developed in accordance with GC security guidelines.

With the Operation Coordinator undertake risk assessment of field offices and projects. Advise on mitigation approaches.

Support Crisis Management Team efforts whenever necessary as per GC security Framework.

Ensures that appropriate security measures related to the programs are in place and undertaken as appropriate.

Give high consideration to the principle of conflict sensitivity in coordinating program design and implementation.

Manages and mitigate regional risk through monitoring national and regional issues that may impact staff and regional programming.

Identify staff needs, assist in the recruitment process, the selection and management (including coaching and evaluating) staff assigned to the Country.

Minimum 8 years relevant work experience in humanitarian/protection organisations working in conflict affected areas, of which a minimum of 4 years in a management role.

Solid understanding of Monitoring, Evaluation, Accountability and Learning (MEAL) tools and processes.

Demonstrable capacity to analyse complex contexts and translate analysis into programme adaptations.

In depth knowledge of the conflict context(s) in SDN and broader region desirable.

Excellent English (written and oral) and Arabic language is a very strong asset.

Understanding and respect for organisational principles and confidentiality.

Strong logic and organisational skills, flexibility and adaptability to change.

Accuracy and reliability, ability to reach results and meet deadlines under pressure.

Proven ability to work well with colleagues and partners from diverse ethnic/cultural backgrounds.

The employee will be accountable for the responsibilities and the competencies, in accordance with the GC Performance Management p. The following documents will be used for performance reviews:

Any candidate affiliated to, or openly supporting, one or more interest groups opposed to the Foundation’s principles and values, or whose previous position could engender safety issues for co-workers at Appel de Genève / Geneva Call, will be excluded from this selection process.

To apply please follow the link:

No later than May 1st, 2023.

All applications will be kept confidential. Please note that only shortlisted candidate will be contacted for further process.

Regional Director statement on attacks on health care in Sudan [EN/AR]

Conflict will worsen the humanitarian situation in Sudan

Sudan: We need your help to protect families caught in violence