As students staying in dormitories, you would love to live in a safe environment as you go on with your studies.

Unfortunately, there is no guarantee of worry-free living, and while investigations into the incident are ongoing, the news reminds us of how crucial it is to be proactive in protecting our safety, even in the comfort of our rented safe spaces.

Here are essential college dorm security tips that can help keep you and your belongings safe.

Let your family and close friends know your schedule. It is best to let your family and close friends know your schedule, both for class and for work (if you’re a working student), for them to know where you are generally, in case something happens.

Know your emergency exits. You should know where your emergency exits are in your dormitory, revealing the fastest exits from different points of your building in case of emergencies. Consider downloading a map and looking at the floor plans of your building.

Keep a list of emergency contacts on your phone, and in your dorm.  You should have quick access to important numbers in case of an emergency, including campus security, local law enforcement, and your parents or guardians. You can swiftly get assistance and make sure you’re ready for any crisis by keeping a list of emergency contacts close to hand. Take a few moments to create a list of emergency contacts and keep it easily accessible in your dorm and on your phone.

Keep your doors and windows locked. While you may forge trust around your neighbors and dorm-mates, do not leave the doors and windows unlocked. Even if your roommate is out late at night. Every person sharing the dorm should have their own key.

Install affordable dorm room alarms and security cameras. Although the dormitory building ought to have a working security and alarm system, it wouldn’t hurt to think about adding inexpensive alarms and cameras in your dorm room to make sure you’re doing everything you can to safeguard yourself and your things. These systems can provide an extra layer of security to your space.

Buy a dorm room safe. The average student owns laptops, tablets, textbooks, and other items such as credit cards, and even jewelry that are of value. You may pick a dorm room safe that suits your needs and price range thanks to the wide range of sizes and designs available. They’re made to keep your personal items hidden and safe, providing you with a little bit of peace of mind.

Always carry a can of self-defense spray, a whistle, or an alarm. You can use these devices to draw attention to yourself and alert others to your whereabouts, allowing you the opportunity to flee or defend yourself. Whistles and alarms can draw attention and possibly scare away an intruder, whereas self-defense sprays might temporarily make an attacker immobile. You can feel more secure and equipped to deal with any potential threats by keeping one of these items with you at all times. You can easily purchase them through either Shopee or Lazada.

Awareness and establishing security tips in your life are keys that you shouldn’t overlook or take for granted. While you make the most out of your college life, you can ensure that the experience you get will be positive by taking your security and safety to heart.