One of the Left’s new heroes is TN State Representative Justin Pearson, who has been embraced as a low-rent Martin Luther King Jr.

An MLK, of course, who is all in favor of segregation, abortion, and all the modern-day perversions that King himself would have wretched over.

Well, a funny thing happened on the way to the state legislature. A young man who presented as a well-spoken cultured bipartisan civility-endorsing moderate found that grifting as a Southern Poverty Law Center-style radical who speaks in the tones and voice of MLK is a better gig. A graduate of Bowdoin College in Maine–a tony school, as you can see in the video below–he was a Mellon Mays Fellow at the school and went to summer public policy institute at the Princeton School of Public and International Affairs.

A pretty privileged guy, in other words. And it shows.

Would you ever have guessed that those are the same people if you weren’t told?

Probably not. Certainly, if you laid out a group of photos with various Black men and told people to match them up it would be a stretch to find 50% who could have done it without prompting.

Add in the voice, the mannerisms, the speech cadence, the vocabulary, and the accent and you would have to be convinced.

Anybody can change ideological positions in 6-7 years. I certainly have, so I don’t fault him for that at all. And while I disagree with him on most issues of the day, I don’t criticize him for that at least here.

Rather, I am criticizing him for being a total and complete fraud, and his victims are the people who think he is anything but a grifter.

The grift has been great for him, you have to admit. He has been all over TV, lionized by the press, the institutional Left, and even the White House. He has a bright future.

But he is also a complete fraud. Obviously so.

One of the most interesting phenomena you see with Leftists is how they put on and take off personalities and accents, and especially how they adopt southern-sounding accents when addressing the proles.

It’s like how Mao adopted his famous jacket to emphasize that he was one of the common folk as he had them executed, sent to the fields, and humiliated them before a mob. It was a total fake, although at least he didn’t begin his career as a grasping elitist and actually suffered for his cause before becoming a disgusting tyrant.

Pearson jumped straight to the end of the process, like any good Gen Z’er.