Today, we’re getting into some REALLY specific Disney World ripoffs that might take you off guard. What do I mean by that? Not all of you may agree with these.

In fact – a lot of these suggestions came from our readers and followers! So don’t shoot the messenger on some of these. Some of you may go, “Hey! I actually really ENJOYED paying for these extras during my last vacation!” And that’s FANTASTIC.

BUT, we’re gonna talk about WHY each of these examples COULD wind up being a big waste of time (and money) during your upcoming trip (including which rip-offs you might end up paying for without realizing what’s happening)…

At the end of July 2022, a shiny new MagicBand model hit the Disney gift shop shelves — called MagicBand+. And MagicBand+ promised you a more IMMERSIVE way to engage with the parks. The MagicBand+ does everything that the old version of MagicBand does, along with using lights, sounds, and haptic vibrations to interact with certain areas and shows around select lands.

Cool, right? It can be! Some people are thrilled that they can join a Bounty Hunter Mission in Batuu, or trigger music from the golden statues, or see the colors of their band light up along with the nighttime spectaculars. But other folks … aren’t so impressed.

For starters, a MagicBand+ is gonna be, naturally, more expensive (with prices ranging between $34.99-$54.99, while standard bands are priced starting at $19.99 for a basic design). Unlike the regular MagicBands, a NEW MagicBand+ needs to be CHARGED. So if you don’t remember to CHARGE yours the night before, then you’re not gonna be able to USE those features you paid extra for.

Not to mention, my MagicBand+ just kept “buzzing” for some reason? I never knew what it wanted. Was there an interactive point I was missing out on? Was it dying? Was it just trying to get my attention because it was feeling lonely? Dunno. So that kinda became more of a nuisance added to my day rather than being super useful or interactive.

If you’re still interested in owning a MagicBand+ for your next Disney World trip, then you can save money on select styles by purchasing one BEFORE your trip instead of DURING your trip — as long as you already have a Disney World Resort reservation all locked in place. To purchase one (or multiples) of these discounted bands, sign into your Disney account online and make sure your resort reservation is linked to said account. Then, select the “My Magic Bands and Cards” link, which will direct you to these extra savings!

When you drop a WHOLE lotta money on a Disney World table service meal, you don’t want to walk away thinking, “Wow, that tasted a lot like that ONE restaurant that’s just around the corner from my house.” You want something different. (Or, at very least, you want an immersive dining room setting that’s gonna be one of a kind.)

Disney World is really, REALLY good at bringing interesting atmospheres and storytelling features to your dining experience — and, at many restaurants, they’re good at providing top-notch meals that’ll really stand out from your usual steak-and-potatoes. But not EVERY restaurant on Disney property is gonna be the most memorable. Take Teppan Edo in EPCOT, for instance.

Teppan Edo is tasty. It makes teppanyaki meals right in front of you with highly experienced hibachi chefs that’ll give you a show while you wait for your entrees and sides to finish sizzling on the grill.

But if you have ANY kind of hibachi-like restaurant in your neck of the woods, the food and setting here isn’t all that different from what you’ll receive back home (aside from it being set in EPCOT’s Japan Pavilion instead of the outer banks of your local mall).

Paradiso 37 in Disney Springs has GREAT Happy Hour deals FOR SURE. (You can order $5 House Margaritas, Coors Lite, and Tecate daily — as long as you’re sitting at the bar.) And, granted, I really DO enjoy some of the appetizers here — like the South American Crazy Corn and the P37 Queso.

HOWEVER, the vibes at Paradiso feel very much like OTHER tourist-y chain locations (like… a Margaritaville or a Bahama Breeze).

Otherwise — the food isn’t ALL that unique (but you’ll still be paying top-dollar to experience it).

And when you go to Tony’s Town Square in Magic Kingdom, you’ll definitely get a break away from the park crowds for a bit in a cute Lady and the Tramp-themed setting, but the food you’re gonna get here is definitely Olive Garden-level (minus the unlimited soup, salad, and breadsticks).

So what restaurants SHOULD you invest in for a more memorable experience?

Try getting reservations for Sci Fi Dine-In at Disney’s Hollywood Studios. The food may TASTE like familiar diner grub, BUT the drive-in setting is WICKED cool. You’ll be able to watch cheesy black-and-white sci-fi clips on a giant projector in a dim-lit setting.

Oh, and you’ll also be dining in your own convertible. How NEAT is that?

Space 220 over at EPCOT ALSO provides an over-the-moon immersive atmosphere that starts with you taking a stellavator STRAIGHT to the Centauri Space Station, giving you a chance to dine amongst the stars.

Yak and Yeti at Disney’s Animal Kingdom is an underrated GEM with a menu FULL with flavorful fusions of Asian cuisines.

Raglan Road in Disney Springs isn’t your AVERAGE Irish Pub. It’s an AUTHENTIC one — featuring classic Irish dishes with contemporary twists.

Skipper Canteen in Magic Kingdom serves up BOTH. You’ll get to dine on Asian, South American, and African-influenced cuisines in one of three Jungle Cruise-themed dining rooms.

Sanaa at Disney’s Animal Kingdom Lodge has a menu full of classic African Cuisines and dining room views that let you look out at the resort’s personal savanna!

And Story Book Dining at Artist Point with Snow White over at Disney’s Wilderness Lodge may be a MOUTHFUL to say, but the experience here is top-notch. Not only are you dining in an enchanted forest and meeting classic characters from Disney’s FIRST-EVER animated film, Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, BUT you’re also able to dine on foods just as unique as their names — including options like the Magic Mirror’s Slow-braised Pork Shank, the tequila-and-brandy based Evil to the Core cocktail, and the The Hunter’s Gift to the Queen (featuring an array of beautimous truffles in a smoking box originally designed for “princess hearts.” Not creepy at all.).

Looking for more recommendations? Now’s the perfect time to order our 2023 DFB Guide to Walt Disney World Dining — which has a detailed look into EVERY SINGLE RESTAURANT on Disney World property.

Don’t wanna pay a premium price for an otherwise affordable activity? Yeah. Me, either. So let’s nip that in the bud.

You wanna go play a game of mini-golf at Disney World? Awesome! Then go play some mini golf! That’s not the rip-off I wanna talk about here. The rip-off is when you pay for a Park Hopper+ SOLELY for the mini golf add-on.

Whether you decide to golf with your travel group over at Fantasia Gardens (near Walt Disney World Swan and Dolphin Hotels) OR Winter Summerland (right outside Disney’s Blizzard Beach), a round is gonna cost ya $14 per adult and $12 per kid. (A fairly inexpensive recreational activity that’s fun and kills some time in the afternoon.)

HOWEVER, the Park Hopper + add-on is a whopping $85 EXTRA per park ticket. Now this add on will give you MORE than just a visit or two at the mini golf courses. For each day that you tack on the Park Hopper Plus benefit, you’ll be able to visit multiple Disney parks in one go, in addition to having access to another Disney experience — like Disney’s Blizzard Beach or, you guessed it, GOLF.

If you REALLY wanted the ability to jump from park to park (after 2PM), then a park hopper can be a nice addition to your inventory. AND if you wanted to make sure one of your park days was spent in a Disney water park then, yeah, the Park Hopper+ option could be nifty.

BUT don’t be getting a Park Hopper+ JUST for a round of mini golf. Even if you bought a regular park hopper for $65 extra per ticket, then paid separately for mini golf once you arrived at the course, you’d STILL be paying less than you would if you purchased a Park Hopper+ for the exact same thing.

Look, the Disney World sweaters, hoodies, and spirit jerseys are CUTE. REALLY cute. But those shirts (depending on the style) can get up their price-wise. A Mickey shirt is gonna put ya back $54.99, and a Spirit Jersey costs near $80! Even a kid’s spirit jersey is priced around $60.

BUT if you’re looking for attire that’s cute, cozy, and WAY more affordable, this is where my shameless plug for DFB Store merch is gonna be not-so-shameless after all. Because we’ve got really nice, super fun designs for sweatshirts and hoodies galore with prices that aren’t gonna try to compete with Disney’s.

SO if you’re looking to rep your love for Dole Whip or Happily Ever After or the Food and Wine Festival – or get tees for the whole family that everyone will love, check out the DFB Store website ASAP so we can get that outfit sent to you in time for your Disney World vacation.

There’s a RIGHT time to purchase Disney Genie+ for your park visit — so you can gain access to those queue-bypassing services through the Lightning Lanes. There’s also a WRONG time. (Like, a VERY wrong time.)

The RIGHT time is BEFORE 7AM the day of your park visit.

You can’t purchase Genie+ weeks in advance, so you’ll only be able to add it onto your tickets starting at midnight each day that you have a park pass reservation for. You can make that purchase straightaway at midnight, but even if you wanted to purchase it at 6AM, you’ll still have time to do so before the first batch of 7AM Lightning Lane reservations go live.

And this is CRUCIAL because the earlier you can start booking Lightning Lane reservations, the more you’ll be able to use this premium feature throughout the day.

You’ll even be able to STACK reservations by using the 120-minute rule. (This rule has been put in place for guests JUST in case they schedule a Lightning Lane for a ride with a return time that’s HOURS later in the day. That way, even if you haven’t had a chance to use that last Lightning Lane you’re holding, you’ll only have to wait for the two hour cool down period to pass before you can go ahead and make another one).

When you start booking Lightning Lanes earlier in the day, you’ll also have ALL the different Genie+ rides at your disposal — meaning you’ll have a better chance at getting a good Lightning Lane time for your priority rides.

The WRONG time of day to purchase Genie+, however, is when you’re late to the game.

I’m not talking an hour late. You can still make up for lost time if you purchase Genie+ at 8AM instead

I’m talking REALLY late to the game. Like, mid-to-late afternoon when you start to notice that the crowds have REALLY picked up and you’re getting tired of having to navigate around ‘em for EVERY SINGLE ride you wanna go on.

If you wait to purchase Disney Genie + too late in the day, you’ll wind up paying the same price (between $15-$35 per person — and that max price just keeps going up) for less Lightning Lanes. You’ll also have less of an opportunity to use that 120 minute rule — not to mention some of the more popular Genie+ attractions might already be out of Lightning Lanes for the rest of the day, or all the return times now conflict with the nighttime spectaculars you’re wanting to see.

So what’s the big lesson here? Buying Disney Genie + earlier rather than later will save you from having to deal with a big, costly rip-off.

One last note — remember that EACH travel group is different. Just because these costs can be a rip off for SOME, doesn’t mean they’re a rip-off for ALL. So do your research, discuss with your travel group, and figure out what you’re gonna need to save back BEFORE your trip to pay for the experiences and extras YOU wanna experience most. And, as always, keep checking back in with US for even MORE Disney World tips, tricks, and updates!

Join the DFB Newsletter to get all the breaking news right in your inbox! Click here to Subscribe!

With more than , the 2023 DFB Guide to Walt Disney World Dining is full of tips and planning tools developed by Disney World experts over 30+ years of visits. We've done the research for you, so you'll know just which spots will uniquely suit your family's needs!

You'll get a Reference Guide, a 101 Plan, and a Printables and Resources Guide! With mini-reviews of ; an entire chapter on ; full ; and a ; you'll have everything you need to plan your best vacation yet.

Click here to  with code to save 25% off the cover price today!

Our guides are backed by a 100% money-back guarantee, so you have nothing to lose. 🙂

What do you think are the biggest rip-offs at Disney World? Tell me in the comments!