Former President Donald Trump, who was indicted earlier this month in New York on charges related to hush money to an adult film star, and is campaigning to return to the White House in 2024, spoke for an hour before a crowd at the 2023 NRA Convention in Indianapolis Friday.

Trump was the final speaker at the NRA’s Institute for Legislative Action that also featured Mike Pence, the former vice president and Indiana governor.

Here are takeaways from Trump’s speech.

More: Takeaways from former Vice President Mike Pence's speech at the NRA convention

During his remarks, Trump gave shoutouts to Indiana elected officials: U. S. Rep. Jim Banks, who is running for Senate, Lt. Gov. Suzanne Crouch, who is running for governor, and Attorney General Todd Rokita, who is running for reelection.

“He’s so popular now,” Trump said. “He’s unopposed. We like it that way.”

Trump did not mention Gov. Eric Holcomb or U. S. Sen. Mike Braun, who also both gave speeches at the event. Braun also is running for governor in 2024 and praised Trump during his remarks.

Trump mentioned several times the “weaponization” of government agencies to attack him.

He said if he were elected he would “direct the DOJ to investigate every radical DA and Attorney General.”

A day after he was deposed in Manhattan as part of a lawsuit by New York Attorney General and Democrat Letitia James regarding allegations of fraud by Trump, the former president called James a “radical left lunatic attorney general.”

Trump was indicted in New York earlier this month with 34 counts of falsifying business records to conceal information from voters ahead of the 2016 election, according to Manhattan District Attorney Alvin Bragg’s office.

Trump referred to the Manhattan DA and the indictment as “witch hunts.”

Trump acknowledged that the crowd booed Pence, Trump’s former vice president, earlier in the program, which made news.

“I hope you gave Pence a good, warm approval,” Trump said. “He is a nice man if you really want to know the truth.”

Trump several times criticized “RINOs,” referring to Republicans in name only. Trump said these types of Republicans are “worse” than Democrats.

“The RINOs are worse because you don’t know where they’re coming from. The Democrats, you know where they’re coming from and it’s not a good place,” Trump said.

He specifically called out his former U. S. Attorney General Bill Barr, who he called a RINO.

Trump addressed the Nashville, Tenn. mass shooting at a private school at the end of March saying it is essential to “harden our assets to protect our children.”

Trump said he would create a new tax credit to reimburse teachers “for the full cost of a concealed carry firearm and training from highly-qualified experts.”

On March 27, an armed person killed six people on the campus of a private school in a neighborhood of Nashville.

Trump said the country needs to change its approach to mental health and offered ideas for solutions.

The former president said he would convene an FDA panel to investigate whether “transgender hormone treatments and “ideology” increase “the risk of extreme depression, aggression and even violence.”

“I think most of us already know the answer, definitely,” Trump said.

He also said there should be an investigation into “common psychiatric drugs” and “genetically engineered cannabis and other narcotics” that may be causing “psychotic breaks.”

Contact IndyStar's Carmel and Westfield reporter Brittany Carloni at brittany.carloni@indystar.com or 317-779-4468. Follow her on Twitter@CarloniBrittany.