The Bastard!! manga by Kazushi Hagiwara landed back in 1988 in Weekly Shonen Jump and has twenty-seven volumes out for it, with Viz Media having released twenty volumes before giving up on it. The property was always a problematic one because of its use of actual band names in it and it had a six-episode OVA series in the early 90s that Pioneer released years ago.

Warner Bros. Japan brought out the first season with twenty-four episodes total that arrive in the summer and fall 0f 2022 on Netflix with worldwide distribution. Earlier this month, the studio announced that a second season is coming to Netflix worldwide this year with the Requiem of Hell Arc in production.

Now, a new round of casting has been revealed with two new members joining the production. The second season will feature Taisuke Nakano as Ida Deesna and Hinata Tadokoro as Vlad Kills. Check out their character designs below.

The series has Takaharu Ozaki of Goblin Slayer directing it based on the series composition by Yousuke Kuroda. Sayaka Ono is handling the character designs with LIDEN FILMS handling the animation production.

The Japanese cast includes Kishō Taniyama as Dark Schneider, Tomori Kusunoki as Tia Noto Yoko, Hiroki Yasumoto as Gara, Yōko Hikasa as Arshes Nei, Kanae Itō as Lucien Renlen, Tomokazu Sugita as Abigail, Kensho Ono as Kall-Su, Nao Tōyama as Sheila Tuel Meta-Ilicana, Yoshitsugu Matsuoka as Lars, Ari Ozawa as Sean Ari, Shizuka Itou as Kai Harn, and Takehito Koyasu as Di-amon.

Second-season cast additions include Takuma Terashima as Joshua Berahia, Sho Hayami as Nils John Mifune, Junichi Suwabe as Yngwei von Mattström, Koji Yusa as Zion Sol Vanderverg, Asami Seto as Shella E. Lee, Taito Ban as Vai Staebe, Atsushi Tamaru as Sykes Von Snowwhite, Wataru Komada as Ross Zaboss Friedrich, Takahiro Fujiwara as Bol Gil Bol, and Tomohiro Yamaguchi as Zakk Walder

The first season saw coldrain handling the opening theme song while Tielle handled the ending theme song.

Check out the official site and Twitter.

Plot Concept: Modern civilization and the world was destroyed by the God of Destruction, Anthrasax, in 7 days, and then is sealed. Hundreds of years later, the sorcerer Dark Schneider leads a group in an attempt to control the world. Dark Schneider, in the end, is sealed in the body of a young baby, Rushe Ren Ren. 15 years later, his group, minus Scheider, attempts the same mission by unsealing Anthrasax so they can redo the world. To save the Kingdom of Metallicana, a girl named Yoko releases Dark Schneider from her friend Rushe. Now, Dark Schneider fights his former comrades, but not for good; he fights to protect Yoko, and to have some destructive fun.