~ Use Of My Poetry ~

I love the Lord with all my heart and soul. My Holy Spirit inspired poetry tells of  my trust in God, my faith in Christ Jesus my Savior and my journey into finding peace that truly passes all understanding. I pray it will be a blessing to all who read it ~ To God Be The Glory! ~

View all posts by Deborah Ann Belka

This entry was posted on Wednesday, April 12th, 2023 at 2:00 PM					 and tagged with Afternoon Ponderings, Jesus Christ ~ Lord and Savior, Romans 10:13-15 											 						and posted in Afternoon Ponderings.										You can follow any responses to this entry through the RSS 2.0 feed.

2,823,954 Thank You's  ~  for Blessing Me with Your Visit ~

Luke 9:23-24“Then he said to them all: “Whoever wants to be my disciple must deny themselves and take up their cross daily and follow me.  For whoever wants to save their life will lose it, but whoever loses their life for me will save it.”

~ God Wants to Bless You ~

The What if Sheep

One of my poems made into a song ~

Putting On The New Man~ Keep On Keeping On ~

A. W. Pink

Afternoon Ponderings

Be Not Conformed To the World

Bible

Burdens

C.S. Lewis

Charles Spurgeon

CHRISTianity

CHRISTian Poems

CHRISTian Poetry

CHRISTian poetry by deborah ann

CHRISTian Rhyming Poems

Christmas

CHRISTmas Poems

Comfort

D.L. Moody

Doubt

Encouragement CHRISTian Poetry

Eternal Life

Evangelical Poems

Faith

Faith & Trust

Fear

Forgiveness

God

God's Faithfulness

God's Goodness

God's Guidance

God's Love

God's Peace

God's Strength & Power Poems

Good Morning Quote

Grace

Grief and Sorrow

Heart

Heaven

Holy Spirit

Hope

Inspirational CHRISTian Poems

Jesus

Jesus' Return

Joy

Knowing God's Will

Light

Love

Mercy

Patience

Peace

Power

Praise

Praise & Thanksgiving

Pray

Prayer

Pray ~ Prayer ~ Praying

Religious CHRISTian Poems

Rest

Salvation

Satan

Savior

Short CHRISTian Poems

Sin

Snippet of the Day

Sticky Notes From God

Sticky Notes To God

Strength

Thankfulness

The Life ~ Truth ~ Way

The Storms of Life

The Word of God

Trials

Trust

Truth

Uplifting CHRISTian Poems

Waiting on God

Worries and CaresThe Reason for My Hope

I believe in God,

in all of His glorious creation

I believe He made the heavens

and the earth's foundation.

I believe that man,

came from but dust

I believe it's God's image

He puts into all of us.

I believe that Satan,

is the cause for our fallen state

I believe it's still his lies

he uses on us to trap and bait.

I believe that man's heart,

has always been cold and callous

I believe it's full of deceit

filled with ungodly malice.

I believe in Jesus,

God's only begotten Son

I believe He died and rose again

for the sins of everyone.

I believe in redemption,

from our wicked, evil ways

I believe it's the blood of the Lamb

that washes our sins away.

I believe in God's love,

I believe in His grace

I believe one day

God's judgement all will face.

I believe in Heaven,

I also believe in hell . . .

I believe for eternity it's where

the unsaved will dwell.

I believe in the hope,

Jesus imparts in me

I believe all can be saved

if these truth they'd just see!

"But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts:

and be ready always to give an answer to

every man that asketh you a reason of the hope

that is in you with meekness and fear:"

This site is a member of WebRing. Visit  here.

~ Your Word is My Lamp ~~ What Can Man Do? ~

I will not be shaken,

nothing can rattle me

not even my own death

will take me, Lord from Thee.

I will not tremble,

I have nothing to fear

even if I'm all alone

God is always near.

I will not waiver,

on my Rock, I will stand

if I was to stumble

in His grace I will land.

I will not be moved,

nothing can take away

the love I have for Jesus

from His ways I'll not stray.

I will not be shaken,

nothing will take from me

the peace, faith and hope

I have dear Lord, in Thee!

"Truly my soul waiteth upon God:

from him cometh my salvation.

"He only is my rock and my salvation;

he is my defence; I shall not be greatly moved."

~ Who I am in CHRIST ~

Who am I in Christ?

I am fearfully

and wonderfully made

I am His new creation

I am predestined

I am chosen

I am adopted

I am a son of God

I am God's child

I am a child of light

I am a child of day

I am God's bride

I am God's clay

I am God's future

I am God's hope

I am alive to God

I am destined

I am called

I am loved

I am bought with a price

I am redeemed

I am set free from sin

I am joined to the Lord

I am alive by grace

I am justified

I am forgiven

I am sanctified

I am reconciled

I am transformed

I am renewed

I am made perfect

I am dead to sin

I am a slave to righteousness

I am baptized with the Holy Spirit

I am a partner of Christ, Jesus

I am His temple

I am His building

I am His field

I am His branch

I am His follower

I am His fellow worker

I am His ambassador

I am the salt of the earth

I am the light of the world

I am sober-minded and watchful

I am armed

I am His warrior

I am His friend

I am being trained in righteousness

I am created for good works

I am a doer of the word

I am kind

I am humble

I am meek

I am patient

I am loving

I am fruitful

I am steadfast

I am gentle

I am faithful

I am never alone

I am never hungry

I am never thirsty

I am sealed for the day of redemption

I am called to eternal glory

I am the aroma of Christ to God

I am crucified with Christ

I am not ashamed

I am a sinner

I am forgiven

I am born again

and I am going to heaven!

Who are you without Christ?

~ Throughout the Old and New Testament

we can find Scriptures that let us know who we are in Jesus ~

~ Thank You for Blessing Me with Your Visit ~

~ to GOD be the GLORY ~

BIBLICAL CHRISTIANITY BLOGThis blog teaches the true Gospel of Jesus Christ and contends earnestly for the original Apostolic faith. Here, we aim to correct doctrinal errors in the Church, by rightly and uncompromisingly dividing the Scriptures, to expose the original Apostolic views on all matters of the Christian faith.

Joyful Moments in ChristFollowing Jesus while Seeking Joy and Contentment in the Christian Life

The Writer's Lowdown

Outcast 4 ChristHe left the 99 for me!

Glory in the Trenches

Visionpointmsj.comServant & follower of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, the resurrection and the life, the Son of the living God of Israel

Goodness Of God MinistriesInspirational Messages on the Greatness of our Awesome God

Light from the WordYour Word is a lamp to my feet; a light to my path.

CareBibleStudyGod Loves You and So Do I!!

Harbor Lights MinistriesThings I Preach To Myself About Podcast

Mensensamenleving.meMensen maken de samenleving en nemen daarin een positie in. Deze website geeft toegang tot een diversiteit aan artikelen die gaan over 'samenleven', belicht vanuit verschillende perspectieven. De artikelen hebben gemeen dat er gezocht wordt naar wat 'mensen bindt, in plaats van wat hen scheidt'.

DINING WITH JESUS PRODUCTIONSDining with Jesus Christian Episodes. Hablamos Español.   May the Lord bless those who have visited our site and faithfully followed us as we continue our mission to spread the gospel to all corners of the world.  Amen

Wholehearted Woman MinistriesHelping women be fully surrendered to the lordship of Jesus Christ and courageously "on-mission" for Him – one heart at a time.

Loving God, Living God, Loving Hope, Living Hope, Loving Living Life His Way! "Many things are possible for the person who has hope. Even more is possible for the person who has faith. And still more is possible for the person who knows how to love. But everything is possible for the person who practices all three virtues." - Brother Lawrence (1605-1691), Practicing the Presence of God (1692). Romans 15:4 "For whatever was written in earlier times was written for our instruction, so that through perseverance and the encouragement of the Scriptures we might have hope."

Where the Wind...May compassion be your compass and generosity your guiding star.

Restored HeartsEmbracing the healing love of Jesus - encouraging lives who are on the journey of recovery and restoration.

Read to Your Heart's ContentReading, especially reading good smart things, is important. Book reviews and thoughts. What we say, do, and read matters.

Soaring with Butterfly WingsSharing my life, my heart and my hope.

Life in the Labyrinth

Hope for Complete Healing

Words of Grace, Truth, and Hope

Daily Manna (Coffee with Jesus)Spiritual encouragement for your heart, mind and soul that will make you smile.

Beacons of Light

Adorn the Gospel "adorn the doctrine of God our Savior" - Titus 2:10

Grace and Peace, JoanneBiblical study, scholarship, theology, and archaeology from an equalitarian point of view

The Word Is Not ImprisonedBy grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, for the glory of God alone!

Hope For A Hopeless GenerationTelling the world the truth about our One true Hope, Lord Jesus Christ; The living Son of God and making disciples.

Prodigal ThinkerSharing the love of Jesus with the world.

Feast On The Lord Jeremiah 29:13 You will seek Me and find Me when you search for Me with all your heart.

Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.

To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here:

Cookie Policy