The actress who played Marissa Cooper in The O. C. was the ultimate Y2K fashion It-girl

The actress who played Marissa Cooper in The O. C. was the ultimate Y2K fashion It-girl

When we think of fashionistas of the 2000's, Paris Hilton, Britney Spears and Lindsay Lohan immediately spring to mind. All iconic of course, but we must honour the actresses from our favourite TV shows for providing as much style inspo off-screen as they did onscreen including: Blake Lively (aka preppy Serena Van Der Woodsen in Gossip Girl), Hilarie Burton (grunge queen Peyton Sawyer in One Tree Hill) and of course, Mischa Barton. Despite her character Marissa Cooper and the rest of The O. C cast influencing our sartorial agendas whenever they were on TV (or DVD: Gen-z's, please Google if unfamiliar), Barton was a certified Y2K It-girl in her own right.

From sheer dresses to Chloe bags and Oscar De La Renta gowns, Mischa was the starlet of the moment with an enviable dress code.

MORE: The 17 most glamorous Met Gala dresses of all time

RELATED: Nicola Peltz just added another amazing vintage Louis Vuitton bag to her collection and here's how you can get one

Recently it was announced the 37-year-old would be back on our screens to join the cast of the Australian soap Neighbours which ended on July 28 2022 after 36 years, but has been revived by Amazon.

In celebration of Mischa’s return, we took a look back at some of her most iconic fashion moments ever and warning: the overwhelming nostalgia is on the horizon.

She gave her noughties sheer dress trend a Cannes-worthy upgrade in 2016, in a gown by Lebanese designer Georges Hobeika. The corset-waist gown boasted a see-through neckline with stunning floral embellishments.

Our personal favourite. The satin corset, the draped chiffon, the coloured pattern, the asymetrical layering... speechless. A 2004 Christian Dior phenomenon.

Mischa wore the most opulent Oscar De La Renta spaghetti strap gown to the Emmy's in 2005.

Barton stunned in a custom monochrome Giambattista Valli gown for her first Met Gala.

Another dress that is absolutelu It-girl approved in 2023. Metallics are everything, and so was this Zac Posen dress at the Oscars after party in 2005.

Carrying a Chloe Bay bag in the 2000s was as iconic as carrying a Mulberry.

She wore an uber-feminine blush gown with a statement corsage in 2006 - 2023's TikTok fashionista's would definitely approve.

The chicest LBD of the moment. The one shoulder Emporio Armani dress with a silver buckle stole the red carpet.

She wore Missoni for the 2008 Superheroes: Fashion And Fantasy themed gala.

She wore an iconic siren red cutout dress by Roberto Cavalli to the event at Sugar Ray Leonard's house in 2006.

Like this story? Sign up to our Hello! Fashion newsletter to get your weekly 'Fashion Fix' delivered straight to your inbox.