More information has come to light about why Arnold Schwarzenegger ended up filling a 'pothole' in his neighborhood that allegedly went unaddressed for weeks.

Schwarzenegger was compelled to repair the gap after learning officials weren't planning on filling it until next month, according to TMZ.

The action star, 75, made headlines after he shared video of him filling what he called a 'pothole' to his Instagram, however the City Of Los Angeles later claimed the hole was not actually a pothole but a service trench being handled by SoCalGas.

TMZ reports the job had been completed back in January, and wasn't set to be filled until May - much longer than the neighborhood would have liked.

The long interval ultimately compelled Arnold to repair the trench himself.

DailyMail.com has contacted the Los Angeles Department of Public Works for comment.

The new update comes after a representative for the City Of Los Angeles addressed the issue, claiming it was not actually a pothole.

They told NBC Los Angeles: 'This is not a pothole. It's a service trench that relates to active, permitted work being performed at the location by SoCalGas, who expects the work to be completed by the end of May.

'As is the case with similar projects impacting City streets, SoCalGas will be required to repair the area once their work is completed.'

According to ABC7, the utility company added that because the road is concrete, and not asphalt, Schwarzenegger's handy work may only be a temporary fix.

The former California Governor shared a minute-long video on his Twitter page on Wednesday in which he worked with another man to fill in the large pothole that he said has been plaguing his neighborhood for weeks.

In the video, which has amassed 4.5million views, Schwarzenegger pours a bag of Quikrete into the pothole and begins evening our the spread with a shovel.

A woman in a white car comes driving up to thank the team of worker before realizing who is doing the heavy lifting.

'Oh, Arnold!' she exclaimed, when she saw who was responsible for the neighborly act.

'You're welcome,' he said. 'You have to do it yourself. This is crazy. For three weeks I've been waiting for this hole to be closed.'

The Terminator actor captioned the vide: 'Today, after the whole neighborhood has been upset about this giant pothole that's been screwing up cars and bicycles for weeks, I went out with my team and fixed it.

'I always say, let's not complain, let's do something about it. Here you go.'

The Terminator actor sported brown work boots, a brown bomber jacket, an all black athleisure look, dark sunglasses, and a white beard to do the neighborhood work.

Schwarzenegger previously served as Governor of California from 2003 to 2011.

Daniel Ketchell, a spokesperson for Schwarzenegger, said Brentwood residents made repeated requests for repairs since winter storms opened up potholes and cracks on local roads.

The eleven atmospheric rivers that have hit California this year have mitigated drought that has plagued the state for years, but have also opened up potholes and cracks on local streets and freeways.

Road crews have struggled to keep pace with the demand for repairs following the exceptionally stormy season.

The case is apparently no different in the wealthy enclave of Bel Air, where Schwarzenegger lives in a nearly 15,000 square foot palatial home.

Mayor Karen Bass last week announced a plan to address what she called an unprecedented number of damaged streets across the city. Since Dec. 30, Los Angeles has received 19,692 service requests for repairs, and as of April 6, crews had filled at least 17,549 potholes, officials said.