HOPPING – Contains affiliated content. Products featured in this Mail Best article are selected by our shopping writers. If you make a purchase using links on this page,

An under £10 eye mask that has been hailed 'magic for hangovers and headaches' by Amazon shoppers has also been deemed a 'godsend' for hay fever sufferers, helping to relieve swollen, puffy and itchy eyes.

The NEWGO Cooling Eye Mask is a cool and calming solution to help treat a myriad of symptoms, including red, itchy, puffy, and watery eyes caused by high pollen. And the best news? The reusable eye mask is just £9.50 on sale now.

Data from the Met Office suggests that hay fever is striking earlier and earlier, and symptoms could be more severe.

If you've already been experiencing the miserable symptoms caused by hay fever, then it might be wise to join the thousands who have found relief from the NEWGO Cooling Eye Mask.

The reversible design is made from PVC and a super soft covering that is filled with gel beads, which when placed in the fridge, can stay cold for longer, helping soothe and calm sore eyes and headaches.

One quick and affordable way to reduce swollen, puffy eyes is using a reusable gel eye mask. And according to over 12,000 five-star reviews, the NEWGO Cooling Mask is the way to go.

Acting as a cold compress to take down swelling and make us feel more awake, the cooling eye mask is a quick and affordable way to ease discomfort brought on by migraines, hay fever and dry eyes.

Simply store it in the fridge and it is ready whenever you need it. The flexible gel beads keep it cooler for longer, while the soft fabric on the reverse allows for direct skin touch, keeping you comfortable.

And better still, thanks to the super elastic straps, it allows the gel eye mask fits different head sizes so the whole family can reap the benefits.

One five-star review for the NEWGO Cooling Eye Mask raved: 'Brought this to help with my hay fever and I suffer really bad with it in my eyes.

'It can be refrigerated and put in the freezer offering different strengths of cooling. This helped my hay fever so much this year... even brought a second one!'.

Another agreed, adding: 'This is so good for puffy eyes, hay fever eyes, haven’t slept for days bags and dark circles. Comfortable to wear, dual sided for comfort. I’ve used it on my forehead for headaches and it works.'

A third penned: 'It's so comfortable! I had a headache all day yesterday due to hey fever and stress. I left it in the fridge while at work.

'When I got home I put this on and laid on the sofa. It was so relaxing and comfortable. Perfect temperature in the fridge. I'm very impressed.'