It was a big day for the Tendulkars as the young and talented Arjun Tendulkar picked up his maiden wicket in his IPL career as he helped Mumbai Indians defeat SunRisers Hyderabad by 14 runs at the Rajiv Gandhi Stadium in Hyderabad.

The youngster, who is only 2 matches old in the competition, impressed one and all as he bowled a sensational final over and dismissed Bhuvneshwar Kumar in the fifth ball of the final over.

In fact, he was sensational throughout his spell. He took the new ball for Mumbai as he did in his debut game, but this time he showed better control on the Hyderabad pitch, giving a tough time to opener Mayank Agarwal in the first couple of overs. MI captain Rohit Sharma gave a big responsibility to Arjun to defend 20 runs in the final over, and the young Tendulkar didn’t disappoint.

Arjun repaid Rohit’s faith and bowled a sensational over and even went on to pick up the first wicket of his career. Arjun completed his role as a new-ball bowler, conceding 14 runs in two overs, Rohit called up Arjun for the final over of the match with SunRisers Hyderabad needing 20 runs to win. He dismissed Sunrisers Hyderabad’s Bhuvneshwar Kumar off the last ball of the game to help his side register a stunning 14-run win over SRH.

Meanwhile, Arjun’s sister Sara Tendulkar was on cloud nine after watching his brother pick his first wicket in the Indian Premier League. Her happiness was clearly visible on her Instagram stories, which are now going viral. Expressing her feeling, Sara wrote: “Waited so long for this day. So so so proud of you!! @arjuntendulkar24”

In her next stories she hailed her brother and revealed how she can’t stop watching the highlights of the game. She wrote: “Can’t stop watching the highlights!”

Meanwhile, after the match, while speaking to the commentators, Arjun Tendulkar expressed his happiness and also shared how he executed the last over. He said:

“I just had to focus on what was in hand, the plan and executing it. Our plan was just to bowl wide and make the batter target the longer boundaries. I am happy to bowl every time the captain asks me to.”

On being asked about the conversations he has had with his father, he said: “We talked about cricket, discussed tactics before the game and he tells me to back what I practise every game. I just focused on my release, bowling good lengths and lines upfront.”