What better way to spring into the new season than with an assortment of weekly salads? You can have variety galore simply by changing the dressing and the enhancements but especially by changing the greens. My go-to pick is arugula.

Spring is the prime time for freshly grown arugula, and I have been picking leaves from my garden for weeks. Also known as Italian cress, rugulau, rucola, roquette or rocket, it definitely rocks a salad with a distinctive flavor and beautiful elongated dark green leaves.

It is a gift to us from the Mediterranean, and Thomas Jefferson grew it at Monticello, listing it as an essential kitchen ingredient. Arugula is in the same family as radishes, watercress and mustard. And even though it can reach heights of up to 20 inches, it is best when picked young and early.

As arugula ages, it tends to take on a more bitter taste rather than the peppery one that is common. The youngest of leaves almost have a nutty flavor that is my preference for salads. Those that are in between young and old are perfect for cooking.

Yes you read that correctly! Unlike traditional salad greens, arugula is delicious when added to spring soups, added to tabbouleh or wilted on top of grilled chicken or fish. Even though it makes another fresh appearance in the fall, it sings during this time of the year.

If you aren’t growing your own, look for leaves that are solid green and not beginning to turn yellow. That’s what happens as it matures. Keep it in a produce bag in the produce bin. Don’t wash it until you are ready to use it, then drain it in a colander and blot dry with paper towels. Use it as soon as you can and replenish often during the peak season.

Eileen Jacobs of Des Moines asks “I am growing beets and need some help on when to harvest the greens.”

For the most tender result, use when the plants are young. But the larger full-sized leaves can be braised or even boiled. The stems can be cut into short lengths and braised separately. I like to serve them with a drizzle of olive oil and a sprinkle of lemon juice.

Tammy Algood is the author of five cookbooks and can be seen on “Volunteer Gardener” on PBS stations in Tennessee. Follow her at www.hauteflavor.com