The Saskatoon Blades (4-3) hope to even their series vs the Red Deer Rebels (5-1) 1-1 tonight at SaskTel Centre.

Game 1 went in favour of the visitors 3-1 Friday making it the second consecutive round the Blades have dropped the series opener on home-ice. Play is much different from Round 1 vs the Regina Pats as Red Deer plays a much more physical and methodical defensive game. Shots were only 24-20 in favour of the Blades by Game 1’s end but the Rebels capitalized on their few opportunities. Both penalty-kills went 3/3 Friday, and each side will try to make good on their man-advantage first.

Saskatoon won the season-series 3-1 outscoring the Rebels 16-12 and try to avoid going down 2-0 before heading on the road for games 3 and 4 inside the Peavey Mart Centrium.

Edmonton Oilers prospect Jake Chiasson is heating up as the Blades go deeper into the playoffs. The 6-foot-2 winger netted Saskatoon’s lone goal in Friday’s Game 1 defeat and notched the series-clinching tally in Game 7 on Monday vs the Pats. A former member of the Brandon Wheat Kings, Chiasson has been a stellar add to the Blue and Gold since being acquired at this year’s WHL trade deadline. The Abbotsford, BC. product has four points in eight games this postseason after registering 30 in 33 games with the Pac Man on his chest.

La Salle, MB’s own Tyler Parr made his long-awaited return to the Blades lineup Friday after being sidelined for months due to injury. Dec. 13th vs the Medicine Hat Tigers was Parr’s last taste of action and he fit right in during his return. Known for his elite defensive play, the 5-foot-11 forward racked up one shot in Game 1 while contributing on several other chances. Parr was having a career year in his sophomore season before he was placed on the shelf with four goals and 14 points in 27 games.

If you’re a goalie staring down Egor Sidorov, good luck. The NHL Draft eligible forward had five goals in Round 1 and currently rides a seven-game point streak with 11 during that span. In his sophomore season Sidorov became the first Blade to score 40 goals since Max Gerlach during the 2018-19 campaign, accomplishing the feat in just 53 games. The 6-foot sniper is a game-changer on the ice with his ability to score in bunches, something Red Deer experienced first-hand this year when he tallied four goals and three assists in the season series.