Transcripts are auto-generated and thus will be be inaccurate and at times crude. We are considering building a system to allow volunteers to edit transcripts in a controlled system. No part of this transcript may be copied or referenced or transmitted in any way whatsoever.

Transcripts are auto-generated and thus will be be inaccurate and at times crude. We are considering building a system to allow volunteers to edit transcripts in a controlled system. No part of this transcript may be copied or referenced or transmitted in any way whatsoever.

In Alhamdulillah wa Salatu was Salam ala Nabina Muhammad wa ala alihi wa sahbihi wa seldom at the Sleeman Kathira rubbish. Raha is otherwise silly and Emery wash Lola data melissani F Bahu coli and mobile.

We firstly begin by praising Allah subhanahu wa taala we praise Him, we seek His help, and we ask for his forgiveness.

We praise and thank Allah to Allah for once again allowing us all to be gathered here today. To perform the salah to Leisha and the tidal wave together in Jamar I ask Allah subhanahu wa taala to bless each and every one of us. And I ask Allah subhanahu wa taala to gather us, like we are gathered here but in general Philadelphia, I mean

Subhanallah how amazing it is that we are currently alive in the last 10 nights of Ramadan, the best night's in the entire year. And Allah to Allah has given us this opportunity to worship him as much as we can in sha Allah Who to Allah and of course earn the pleasure of Allah and earn the forgiveness from Allah subhanho wa Taala We ask Allah subhanahu wa taala to forgive all of us.

One of the reasons as I mentioned before in my previous speeches, one of the reasons why we fast the month of Ramadan is for us to be forgiven by Allah to have complete forgiveness. And we know from the very famous verse or the very famous Hadith man sama Ramadan Iman and YT Serban who fear Allah who match Academy Ramadan big all of us should have memorize this, this hadith banner that whoever first the month of Ramadan with iman and hoping for rewards that Allah subhanahu wa taala forgives all of his past sins. And now we are towards the end of Ramadan. And now we are begging for forgiveness from Allah. You know, we can hear the chef reciting or reading in his dua, all about

forgiveness, asking Allah to Allah for the ultimate forgiveness and we are all saying I mean at the back, and I'm sure that every single night and even in the day, we are putting our heads on the ground, begging Allah subhanho wa Taala for forgiveness. And likewise, this is another reason why the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam taught us through a mother I Isha Radi Allahu anha, the very famous dua that we all know. And we heard it today Allahumma Inaka Alpha One, two, hit bull, alpha four and ni, O Allah, you are the one who forgives. You love to forgive, so forgive me. And we've mentioned the meaning of alpha. You know, it's such an amazing meaning that he obliterates the sins

completely. It's not shown in your record anymore. It is not there at all. Subhanallah We are begging Allah to Allah, and this is the best dua to make in these last 10 nights of Ramadan. So speaking of forgiveness, and making Toba and asking Allah to Allah, for complete forgiveness, I thought today, I will just speak about asking Allah to Allah for forgiveness. You know, and Ramadan is not the only time when we seek forgiveness from Allah. No. Ramadan is a time where we ask Allah for forgiveness a lot more. But it doesn't mean that we stop here. Because we know what happens when Ramadan finishes, you know, the shaitan opened up again and again the human beings fall into error.

Again, the Muslims fall into sin. But Subhanallah one thing that we learn in the month of Ramadan is to abstain from sin.

This is another reason why we fast the meaning of soul is to abstain and we abstain from what things that are halal when you're fasting. You are actually abstaining from the things that are actually halal. Food is halal. Drinks is halal. And of course intimacy with your spouse is halal. We abstain from this while we are fasting. But what why do we do this? One of the reasons is to train our knifes to train ourselves to stay away from the haram. This is another reason why we forced the monks over

madonn to learn to abstain, you know, even in the most remote places, places where nobody can see you. Even if you ask a child who is fasting while he is alone in his room, I mean, he could break his fast, no one's gonna know, no one can see, but yet he has that consciousness of Allah, that no, I'm not going to break my fast, I'm not going to eat, I'm not going to drink because Allah is watching me. And that helps us to abstain from sins as well, even after the month of Ramadan. So abstaining from sins is a part of the reasons why we fast in the month of Ramadan. But as we know, and as I said, shaitan comes back and affects us again. And we are human beings at the end of the

day we forget hence the name in son from this yarn, we forget. We forget and we commit those sins again, maybe not the same as we did before in sha Allah. That's the hope. But we will be committing sins again. And we know this, because the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam tells us if we were a creation that didn't commit sins, Allah to Allah would have replaced us with a creation that does commit sins, but then they make Toba to Allah And Alhamdulillah we make Toba to Allah subhanho wa taala. So for this because we will be committing sins again. No a few things from the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wasallam. Now firstly, was the prophet sinful? Did he commit any sins? Yes or no?

tricky question. Did the Prophet commit any sins? No, he didn't. The Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam did not commit any sins. But did you know how many times the Prophet may still follow they? In Neela stole federal law her philleo Miata Mara, the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam he said that indeed, verily, I asked forgiveness from Allah subhanahu wa taala 100 times a day. And again, a man who didn't have any sins, yet, he would ask Allah to Allah for forgiveness. Where is the Prophet? And where are we? How many times should we be asking Allah for forgiveness a day, maybe much more than 100 Subhanallah so one thing that we learned after this Ramadan ends that you

continue to make is still far make it a part of your life, minimum 100 times a day. But if you can, much more in sha Allah, this is still far we'll help you and Allah to Allah in sha Allah will be forgiving your sins. So very, very important to do that. Another point that I want to mention,

the Prophet sallahu alayhi wa sallam, he taught us a very special dua, a very special dua. Now as we know in Ramadan and I just said earlier, the special dua to make in the last 10 nights of Ramadan, there is also another dua, the Prophet sallahu alayhi wa sallam told us to make this is called say you do still for

the highest form of asking for forgiveness. It's the head of all forgiveness. And it's a it's a lengthy two hour but we should all learn this inshallah Allah Houma Antara de la ilaha illa and Holika attorney what an Abduch Well, Ana Allah Vika well what are they Kamisato RT Allahumma inni are also beaker mean Cherie mouse on RT Ebola KB near America Allah whatever will be done be so fiddly for inner who la yo fetal vinnova He learned beautiful, beautiful two hour and you can even Google it. You can Google it right right say you will still fall type it down. And you will find that da insha Allah memorize this dua. What is the meaning of these two are Allahumma and Sarabi? Oh

Allah You are my Lord. La ilaha illa and there is no God except for you. Haluk Tony what an outlook you created me and I am your servant. What Ana Allah, DECA wha wha DECA master to art and I am under your covenant, and I promise to uphold it as best as I can. Allahumma inni aerobic Michelle Remus on RT O Allah I seek refuge with you from the evils that I commit Ebola Karenia Motika Allah wa Abu Dhabi Thembi I acknowledge your favors upon me and I acknowledge my sins folfiri Lee forgive me for in the hola yo fiddle don't know but he learns for indeed there is no one to forgive except for you. What a beautiful dua This is and the prophets of Allah Allah Allah wa sallam said, Whoever makes

this dua in the morning and happens to pass away before the evening will enter paradise. And whoever makes this dua in the evening and passes away before the morning will enter paradise

What an amazing opportunity. So learn this dua, minimum twice a day make this dua once in the morning, once in the evening, I've made it a habit for myself to make it after every pray. And in sha Allah and you gotta be sincere with this. You should know what you're saying is sincere when you are making dua to Allah for forgiveness. And lastly,

another thing the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam told us, he tells us in one Hadith that is reported Bible Baqarah, the Allah one, he said, a person who commits a sin

and then after that makes a perfect ablution. A good will do then performs Rakata and performs to Raka. This is known as Salah Toba performs to Raka and ask Allah to Allah for forgiveness, of course, then Allah subhanahu wa taala will forgive that sin Subhanallah so this is another thing that we should be doing.

So when you commit a particular sin, Salah to Toba is normally for sins that you know something you've committed, and you are remorseful and you want to seem to be forgiven. Then make an ablution make will do and pray to ask Allah to Allah for forgiveness. This is Salah to Toba, Allah to Allah will forgive you Subhanallah you gotta be sincere. There are certain categories or there certain conditions of true Toba. One is number one, you asking Allah for forgiveness. Number two, you are remorseful with the sin that you have committed. Number three, you hate that sin. Number four, you make a promise to yourself into Allah that you will not commit that sin again. Now of course, we are

human beings we do forget, we may commit that sin again. But at that moment when you are making Toba to Allah you will soon see Allah to Allah will forgive you SubhanAllah. And the fifth condition is if you've wronged somebody else, if you've taken someone else's property, then of course you got to return that. That's the fifth condition for your Tober to be accepted. So these are the things that we should be doing regularly insha Allah and consistently monitoring ourselves almoradi Allah who want us to say has Cebu and full circle cobbler and to hustle, account yourselves before you are held accountable on the Day of Judgment? Always look at yourself, how many sins have I committed?

What wrong am I doing? How can I make Toba to Allah? How can I change myself? Myself and if you do that consistently Insha Allah, then know that Allah to Allah will forgive you the condition or those four or those five, if you are sincere, you will see how your life changes around insha Allah Who to Allah, we ask Allah subhanahu wa taala to give us complete forgiveness, we ask Allah subhanahu wa taala to grant all of us genitals are those Subhanallah behind this panic Allah who will be handing the Chateau La ilaha illa and still Furukawa to be like Salam Alaikum Warahmatullahi Wabarakatuh