Arsenal and Newcastle United linked Rafael Leao proved he is ‘impossible to stop’ during AC Milan’s UEFA Champions League quarter-final victory over Napoli, according to legendary manager Fabio Capello.

Remember that outrageous Lionel Messi solo goal against Real Madrid in the semi-finals 12 years ago? When the Barcelona legend decided enough was enough and took it upon himself to break down Jose Mourinho’s barriers?

What you’ve probably forgotten, however, is that Sergio Busquets, with the most simple of five-yard passes, actually claimed an assist for arguably the Champions League’s greatest ever individual goal.

Olivier Giroud’s opener at the Stadio Diego Armando Maradona on Tuesday night was almost like Messi in reverse. A mazy, breathtaking Rafael Leao dribble leaving a throng of Napoli defenders in his wake before handing Giroud the simplest task of tapping the ball into the back of the hosts’ net.

“This Leao makes the difference,” former Rossoneri boss Fabio Capello tells Sky Italia. “He is a player who is impossible to stop in spaces, and without fast opponents.”

On nights like this, the prancing Portuguese deserves to mentioned alongside Vinicius Jr, Kylian Mbappe, Marcus Rashford, Bukayo Saka and co. Among the very best wide forwards in European football.

No wonder AC Milan are determined to retain the services of a player who will be a free-agent in just over one years’ time.

According to transer expert Dean Jones, Arsenal and Chelsea are preparing to test the waters. Milan currently have no intention of meeting Leao’s demands, while the jet-heeled wideman wants to reduce his release clause from £130 million to around £70 million (TMW).

Leao’s agent, meanwhile, has offered him to a number of European giants; PSG, Newcastle United, Manchester City and Manchester United among them.

“AC Milan’s starting price will be 90 million (around £80m),” says reporter Ciro Venerato. “They will not want to be caught unprepared when dealing with Leao’s potential departure.”

“We already know what the guy can do,” adds Arsenal legend Thierry Henry, via CBS Sports. “He showed it last week (in the first leg vs Napoli).

“On the counter, Leao, please, stop it! He bails Giroud out of jail (after his earlier penalty miss). He couldn’t miss that one.

“Leao. Wow! He said to everybody ‘give me the ball and I will go alone to lay the ball off’. Well done, Leao. The run was crazy.”