KUALA LUMPUR: The national shuttlers have a second chance to get their acts right at home after a recent heartbreak.

All top players are expected to feature in the Malaysian Masters from May 23-28 at the Axiata Arena in Bukit Jalil.

Fans had high expectations on the homesters at the higher-tier Malaysian Open in January but all of them flopped big time.

Independent men’s doubles pair Ong Yew Sin-Teo Ee Yi and Badminton Association of Malaysia’s (BAM) mixed doubles duo Chen Tang Jie-Toh Ee Wei were the only local representatives to reach the quarter-finals.

In the last eight, Yew Sin-Ee Yi went down fighting 21-14, 16-21, 17-21 to eventual winners Fajar Alfian-Rian Ardianto of Indonesia while Tang Jie-Ee Wei, who were only combined last December, lost out 19-21, 9-21 to Thailand’s 2021 world champions Dechapol Puavaranukroh-Sapsiree Taerattanachai.

Lee Zii Jia (men’s singles), Aaron Chia-Soh Wooi Yik (men’s doubles) and Pearly Tan-M. Thinaah (women’s doubles) all did not get past the early rounds.

The players however, have a better incentive to do well as it will be the first World Tour event to offer ranking points for the 2024 Paris Olympics.

BAM president Tan Sri Norza Zakaria does not want the same lack of results repeated in the Masters.

“Our players need to repay the fans by going all out to do well in the tournament,” said Norza at the Academy Badminton Malaysia (ABM) in Bukit Kiara yesterday.

“I don’t want them to feel undue pressure but they need to take full advantage of playing at home.

“We are anticipating a higher-level of competition among the top players in the world this time as they will be fighting for ranking points for the Olympics.

“Just like in the past editions of the tournament, we call on Malaysian fans to come out strongly and offer unrelenting support to our players next month.”Independent mixed doubles pair Tan Kian Meng-Lai Pei Jing were the last Malaysian representatives to lift the title in 2017.

Meanwhile, fans can start purchasing tickets for the tournament from 2pm on Thursday (April 20) from www.ticket2u.com.my.

Prices for tickets will be the same as last year (from RM20 to RM460).