Herc Gomez and Sebastian Salazar react to Julie Ertz being called up by Vlatko Andonovski to join the USWNT ahead of friendlies. (0:56)

Herc Gomez and Sebastian Salazar react to Julie Ertz being called up by Vlatko Andonovski to join the USWNT ahead of friendlies. (0:56)

United States midfielder Julie Ertz has signed a one-year deal with National Women's Soccer League side Angel City FC, the club said Monday, continuing her surprise comeback after an extended absence from the sport.

Ertz, 31, gave birth in August and earlier this month took the field for the U. S. for the first time since the Tokyo Olympics, with the hope of making the squad for the Women's World Cup in July. She came on at halftime of Tuesday's 1-0 win over Ireland.

- Carlisle: With WWC in sight, U. S. faces balancing act

U. S. coach Vlatko Andonovski said a condition of Ertz's return to the national team was that she had to be playing for a club side, as she has not been affiliated with a professional team since the Chicago Red Stars in 2021.

"I am so thrilled to be joining one of the most exciting clubs in the world," Ertz said in a statement. "From the moment they traded for my rights up until now, they have been unwavering in their support of my journey. I cannot wait to get to work with the team and finally experience the amazing game-day atmosphere."

The two-time U. S. Soccer Female Player of the Year who helped the Americans win the World Cup in 2015 and 2019 will be a huge boost for Angel City, whose record is 1-1-1 after a 2-2 draw with Racing Louisville on Saturday.

"Julie is a world-class player who has proven herself time and again at both club and national team levels," said Angel City manager Freya Coombe.

"In addition to her quality on the ball, she will help us defend higher up the field and against opponent transition."

Drafted third overall in 2014 by the Chicago Red Stars, Ertz appeared in 95 games with the team and helped the Red Stars earn seven straight playoff berths.