Poland was the first to take the step and its decision was particularly radical. On Saturday, April 15, during an electoral meeting, presenting a vast "plan to support the Polish agricultural industry," Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski announced that the government, which is also significantly supporting Kyiv's war effort, was going to close its borders to all Ukrainian agricultural products until the end of June. This ban concerns not only cereals, the Polish silos of which are already full, but also almost all products for daily consumption, from fruit and vegetables to sugar, honey and wine. The same evening, the regulation was published in the Polish official journal and came into force.

The announcement was made without any consultation with the European Commission, whose trade policy is solely authoritative, nor any with the Ukrainian side. Kyiv reacted quickly, saying that this decision was taken "in contradiction with past agreements." Then Hungary followed Poland's lead by banning imports of cereals and oilseeds, among others, over the same period. But unlike Warsaw, Budapest continued to allow the transit of Ukrainian goods.

Slovakia joined in by announcing it is continuing to tolerate the transit but prohibiting the import of wheat and several other Ukrainian agricultural products as of April 18 until further notice. The central European country had already implemented a recent ban on the sale and processing of Ukrainian grain stored on its territory, following the discovery of 1,500 tonnes of wheat contaminated with a pesticide banned in the European Union. Fearing it could become a bottleneck, Bulgaria has also announced it is considering restrictions.

In Warsaw on Monday, April 17, after a meeting with his Ukrainian counterpart, Poland's Minister of Agriculture Robert Telus said that negotiations were underway to resolve the transit issue. "We are not opposed to transit, but we want to be 100% assured that these products, which destabilize our market, will not remain in Poland. We are working on an agreement that would guarantee this." The minister appealed to the European Commission to take "action in this direction as soon as possible." "We want to signal to the European Union that we also need changes regarding the issue of tariffs," he added.

The minister then went to the Dorohusk border crossing to "ensure in person that the government's decision is respected." Since February, blockades are regularly organized here and in other key locations by farmers' unions. The massive influx of Ukrainian grain has become a significant political problem for the conservative majority in power, six months before the parliamentary elections, and the subject of great tension in the country.

You have 56.41% of this article left to read. The rest is for subscribers only.