The National Women's Soccer League will welcome the fourth annual 2023 Challenge Cup on Wednesday. The regular season is in full swing, but the tournament will run concurrently with the full season schedule for the first time in its history. Midweek action kicks off with five matches to begin the competition. Fans can watch the NWSL regular season across CBS Sports platforms and Paramount+.

Take a look at the format, the upcoming slate of games and more:

The Challenge Cup begins in April and is now in its fourth year. The annual competition has gone through different variations over the last three editions, moving from a stand-alone tournament in 2020 to a scheduled competition between preseason and the regular season. The Challenge Cup will now take place throughout the regular season, with 12 clubs divided into three groups playing double round-robin matches.

Three group winners advance to the semifinals, along with the highest-placed runner-up. The final four compete for a spot in the final and a cash prize. The final four teams will compete in the semifinals on Sept. 6, and the two finalists will compete in the NWSL Challenge Cup final on Sept. 9. Winners will claim the cup, bragging rights, and a bonus pool among the players.

The competition was first introduced in 2020 as a response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The bubble tournament paved the way for NWSL to be the first fully professional team-contact league to return to play during the height of the pandemic. Since its introduction, the Challenge Cup has evolved over the year.

The previous two years featured the Challenge Cup as a preseason tourney. Teams were divided into three regional groups with each of the four divisional clubs playing double round-robin style matches for points.

The competition format and group regions are unchanged, but this year's edition is the first time the contest will run throughout the NWSL regular season. Tournament sponsor UKG has also bumped up the prize money to a million-dollar pool. The 2022 Challenge Cup awarded $10,000 per player to the champions, while the runners-up received $5,000 per player, and the remaining two semifinalists got $1,500 per player. The four semifinalists in 2023 will split the million-dollar prize.

San Diego Wave FC vs. Portland Thorns FC: The Thorns have gotten off to a blazing start in the regular season thanks to standout play by midfielder Crystal Dunn and 2022 NWSL MVP Sophia Smith. Portland is currently in first place in the league table and one of four teams unbeaten to start the season. Smith has four of Portland's nine goals this year. The club have now added another scoring threat to the roster with Canadian international Adrianna Leon.

San Diego are currently in third place within the regular season table. The franchise are just in their second year as an organization and are already showing early signs that it will be a contender once more. Head coach Casey Stoney has built a roster with a deep bench and an early Challenge Cup match against Portland could be an early playoff preview.

Orlando Pride vs. North Carolina Courage: A match featuring last-place Orlando and tenth-place North Carolina might be the surprise game to provide some exciting goals. Both teams feature Brazilian internationals, and if Kerolin keeps scoring for the Courage, and Adriana breaks through for the Pride, this eastern regional battle will have the highlights.