Developed by SuitePad, the new innovative e-learning platform is set to digitize the training of hoteliers and their employees, as well as students and trainees. Participants have the chance to learn specialist knowledge and practical skills to use in the hotel industry to both advance in their careers and promote sales.

The courses are modular and purely digital, meaning participants can work on the contents and exercises whenever and wherever they want. Accompanying videos and helpful tips make learning easier, and each graduate receives a certificate from the SuitePad Academy at the end of a course. In addition to regular webinars, whitepapers, and ebooks, the free e-learning platform SuitePad Academy is a seamless addition to SuitePad's information and education resources.

''Our digital communication solutions currently reach close to a million hotel guests each month. We have good insights into what really works in terms of guest communication by analyzing the data produced during their use of our in-room tablets," says Moritz von Petersdorff-Campen, co-founder and managing director of SuitePad. "To remain competitive in the long term, hotels need to know current trends and developments and train their employees accordingly – the easiest way to do so is by doing it digitally. And because we want to strengthen the entire industry, our online courses are completely free of charge."

The first online course from the SuitePad Academy covers the topic of "Guest Communication & Storytelling". A total of seven easy-to-understand modules teach methodical and practical tools for effective communication. The course aims to strengthen guest loyalty, increase outlet utilization, reduce workload, and avoid frequent mishaps. Building on the foundation of the first module, SuitePad Academy has plans to roll out additional courses in the future, covering diverse topics such as hotel technology, hotel rooms of the future, upselling, process optimization, and modern hotel marketing.

SuitePad has been helping hotels engage their guests in a digital world for ten years. Their award-winning in-room tablets replace traditional guest directories, serve as a central upselling tool, and combine TV remote control and telephone in one device – effectively decluttering the hotel room and providing guests with a modern and hygienic experience. The company's portfolio also includes a BYOD solution (for guest-owned devices).

In January 2023, SuitePad was awarded the HotelTechAward "Best Guest Room Tablet" for the fourth time in a row. More than 1,000 customers worldwide, from renowned hotel chains to independent boutique properties, use the digital guest engagement platform in over 70,000 rooms to improve guest communication, generate higher sales revenue, and streamline processes.