● No applause (cheering, clapping, whistling or whooping – easy on the whooping, please) until the interval and /or final curtain.● No shouting out during the performance (unless it’s EXCEPTIONALLY bad, in which case booing is permitted).● In the case of musicals, absolutely NO joining in with any of the songs. This ban to include humming, loud tapping of feet or rhythmic clapping of hands.● No talking to the person sitting next to you except in the lowest of brief and occasional whispers.

No longer. What happened at Manchester’s beautiful Palace Theatre last week typified the new yobbishness that now stalks the stalls. Anywhere, in fact, front of house – and sometimes spilling onstage too. A performance of The Bodyguard came to a crashing halt during the anthemic Whitney Houston song I Will Always Love You.Two women refused to remain seated and refrain from loudly – and, it seems, drunkenly – singing along with the lead, former Pussycat Dolls star Melody Thornton.Others in the outraged audience ordered them to shut up and sit down; theatre staff were called, but the disturbance just went on and on. Police were summoned, and the women eventually frogmarched out by the scruffs of their necks.A good time was most certainly not had by all. Hundreds went home deeply disappointed and furious that they’d been forced to miss the end of what by all accounts is a terrific production.Poor Melody posted a video online saying she had done her level best to sing over the racket, and “felt awful” that she and the rest of the cast couldn’t finish the show.

It turns out atrocious audience behaviour is now almost routine in theatres all over the UK. Viewers to Monday’s Good Morning Britain shared the following tales of woe.● An inebriated man who fell asleep 10 minutes after curtain up, snored loudly, broke wind even louder, and intermittently woke up briefly to bellow: “Oi! Less noise!”● The couple who drank steadily during the first act – her gin, him lager – before vomiting onto the heads and into the laps of the people sitting directly in front of them.● A woman – seemingly perfectly sober – who strolled onstage mid-performance and casually plugged her smartphone into a prop charger on set.● The man – three sheets to the wind – who insisted on humming loudly (and tunelessly) throughout a musical performance until the orchestra’s conductor stopped the show and ordered him out.● Tales of sexual congress too graphic to broadcast on morning telly, or print here. I’ve heard of “noises off” of course but this is ridiculous.

Have you ever tried to take a phone off a teenager? Bob Cratchit would have had more luck getting Ebenezer Scrooge to part with a gold sovereign. A teen and their iPhone are the definition of inseparable. So good luck to the campaign group who want a total ban on smartphones for anyone under 16, citing damage to mental health, eyesight and social development.The headmaster of a Suffolk high school says since he declared it a phone-free zone, it’s become a much happier place.Pupils make eye contact and actually talk to each other at breaktimes, rather than staring at tiny screens in total silence.