There’s something about Guardians of the Galaxy movies that make you feel like you couldn’t possibly be watching anything else. They’re distinctly their own thing, and while many factors contribute to this unique sensibility, there’s one that influences it perhaps more than anything else: music.

From the opening sequence of Marvel Studios’ Guardians of the Galaxy, in which Peter Quill aka Star-Lord, played by Chris Pratt, dances around a space cave to Redbone’s ‘Come and Get Your Love’, you know you’re in for something different — not to mention one hell of a ride. It beautifully sets the tone for what’s to come.

Of course, soundtracks are always an important part of any movie, but for Guardians of the Galaxy, Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2, and the upcoming Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3, music is at their very core.

From a narrative perspective, it makes sense that music is so central to Guardians: not only does Peter Quill love it, it is extremely emotionally important to him. When he was a child, his mother, a music fan with excellent taste, gifted him a walkman and a mixtape — her Awesome Mix – before she died. He had it with him when he was kidnapped by aliens immediately after, in 1988.

For Peter, the tape is not only the last tangible connection he has to his mother, but also Earth itself, and who he was before he was a space adventurer. The music is his roots. His inner child. His emotional crutch. His joy. Basically, it’s everything to him.

Speaking to Rolling Stone about the first film, director James Gunn explained, ““The tape is really the character of Quill’s mother. The Walkman and the compilation tape inside of it is the heart of the film.”

This is something that carries through to Vol. 2 and Vol. 3, with music remaining the emotional touchstone of the story.

When it comes to making Guardians of the Galaxy movies, music is not only central to the narrative; it’s baked into the very process, all of which starts with the screenplay.

James Gunn compiles playlists of Guardians-style music and listens to it while writing. He told Vulture that sometimes he’ll go looking for a song from his mix to fit a scene, but also that some songs even inspire him to write a certain scene.

Gunn also uses music while filming – something that’s less common than you’d think. “When you see the characters strutting down the hallway to ‘Cherry Bomb,’ they were actually strutting down the hallway to ‘Cherry Bomb,’” Gunn told Vulture. “I find it helps the actors and the camera operators to find the perfect groove for the shot.”

What’s perhaps most remarkable of all is that the songs Gunn writes into the screenplay and uses while filming are exactly what make it into the final product, which is why they feel so organic.

“Most times when the film is finished, none of the songs that were suggested are included,” producer Kevin Feige told Rolling Stone. “James’ first draft of the [Guardians of the Galaxy] script had the songs that were with us at the end when we brought the film to theaters – a rare and often impossible feat.”

Of course, it’s not just the fact that music is central to the Guardians of the Galaxy series that makes it special – it’s also the kind of music chosen, and the way it’s used. Most songs come from the ’70s and ’80s – the time of Peter’s mother’s young adulthood, and his own childhood on Earth. For the most part, Gunn deliberately chose songs that were popular at that time, but not as well known today.

The result is a fascinating mix of familiar yet also kind of strange – a fittingly uncanny vibe for the Guardians and particularly for Peter. The songs are full of adventure, emotion, and fun, and Gunn utilises them in masterful ways.

Whether it’s the wittily ironic juxtaposition of Baby Groot dancing to ELO’s ‘Mr. Blue Sky’ while an epic fight scene happens behind him, or the sincere and frankly heartbreaking use of Cat Stevens’ ‘Father and Son” after THAT Yondu scene, every song is perfectly chosen to elicit the relevant emotions and create an overall atmosphere that is visceral, immersive, and memorable.

Gunn has already revealed the tracklist for Marvel Studios’ Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3, and it’s exciting to consider the possibilities the songs entail both narratively and cinematically. There’s ‘Creep’ by Radiohead, ‘Do You Realise?’ by the Flaming Lips, ‘Badlands’ by Bruce Springsteen and – perhaps most intriguing of all – ‘Come and Get Your Love’ by Redbone, the song that set us off on this journey, now bringing us full circle.

Whatever Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 has in store for us, with a soundtrack this good? You know it’s going to be one for the ages.

Marvel Studios’ Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 is in cinemas May 4. Book tickets now

Head here to enterFancy winning a double pass to an exclusive Melbourne screening of ‘Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3’, and Spotify After Party?  Head here to enter . Entries close April 25, 2023. T&Cs apply.