A couple have hit back at trolls who claim that they can't be in love because the wife is much more attractive than her husband.

Scott, from Houston, Texas and his wife Divine, originally from the Philippines, have been together for more than five years.

Their relationship began from a mistaken message on Facebook in 2017, when Divine thought he was someone else.

This sparked a long-distance relationship which then turned into a marriage, after Scott visited the Philippines for the first time in 2017 and later proposed to her.

They continued their long distance relationship for four years until Divine moved to the US and the couple wed.

They started their TikTok together in 2021, but trolls refused to believe they could 'ever be together'.

The couple recently made a TikTok video responding to a comment which said: 'Wow. He isn't cute at all. Come on. Be real with us.'

Divine, wearing black sunglasses, looks to her husband and says: 'Babe, they say you're not cute.'

Scott then responds by saying: 'I guess it doesn't really matter, she thinks I'm cute, so.'

Taking off her sunglasses, Divine then says: 'Yeah what you talking about guys, my husband is very, very, handsome.'

She then gives pulls him in to her face with her hand and gives him a kiss on the cheek before saying 'Handsome and handsome and handsome of all the people in the world I know.'

Scott said he suffers from a chronic autoimmune disease called Scleroderma that started when he was 13 and 'morphed' his appearance, but it's 'not expected to get any worse'.

Divine has said previously that it's 'hurtful' to think others believe she's only with Scott for financial reasons and she claims it couldn't be further from the truth.

But that still didn't stop trolls taking to the comments section to speculate about their relationship.

One commented: 'That wallet and green card must be cute.'

Another wrote: 'He is not cute,' while one said: 'Do it for the money.'

A third user chimed in and said: 'Where's her wedding ring at?'

A fourth penned: 'All that for a green card.'

But their fans came to their defense and said they thought the couple were 'cute'.

One fan said: 'He is a handsome man. With a great sense of humor and confidence. That's what women want.'

Another said: 'He is very cute! I think y'all are the cutest couple on TT!  (TikTok) I know for sure y'all have major chemistry together.'

A third penned: 'Beauty is in the eye of the beholder, my eyes see a funny, gentle, loving guy, this makes him in my eyes very attractive.'

This is not the first time that Scott and Divine have hit back at their critics; in 2022, the pair did a wide-ranging interview with YouTube channel Truly in which they opened up about their romance - while slamming any suggestions that their relationship isn't real.

'Because you keep seeing the same thing over and over again. There's just no effect anymore,' Scott said at the time.

'We're just two normal people...there's always going to be someone out there that's not going to think about it [your appearance].'

In a previous TikTok video, the couple also listed the 'weirdest questions' they've been asked by strangers on the internet.

From 'are you a real couple?' to 'are you sexually active?' and 'does your wife ever wash her hair?', the haters don't hold back.