Today at the NAB Show in Las Vegas, we’re making our biggest product announcement ever. We’re excited to introduce seven new products and product updates that will be launched over the coming weeks. This includes new firmware updates for the industry-leading Wireless GO II and RØDECaster Pro II, groundbreaking new products like the Streamer X, RØDECaster Duo and PodMic USB, and much-anticipated accessories.

A new firmware update is coming for the Wireless GO II, which will unlock even more features for what is already the most feature-packed compact wireless microphone system available. This includes the ability to save on-board recordings as WAV files for easy transfer to a computer on-the-go, and start/stop on-board recordings using the transmitter power button – two highly requested features – as well as new camera models added to the camera preset feature, which was introduced in the most recent firmware update, and a number of system enhancements and workflow improvements.

A new firmware update is coming for the Wireless GO II, which will unlock even more features for what is already the most feature-packed compact wireless microphone system available. This includes the ability to save on-board recordings as WAV files for easy transfer to a computer on-the-go, and start/stop on-board recordings using the transmitter power button – two highly requested features – as well as new camera models added to the camera preset feature, which was introduced in the most recent firmware update, and a number of system enhancements and workflow improvements.

A new firmware update will also soon be released for the RØDECaster Pro II, which unlocks an incredible hidden feature: wireless microphone connectivity.

Already the most powerful audio solution for content creators on the market, the RØDECaster Pro II features a flexible array of audio inputs, including combo jacks for connecting both microphones and instruments, Bluetooth connectivity, and dual-USB interfaces for connecting computers and mobile devices. With this new update, users will also be able to connect any RØDE Series IV wireless transmitter – including the Wireless GO II and Wireless ME – for recording pristine wireless audio directly to the RØDECaster Pro II.

This incredible feature is a world-first and makes the RØDECaster Pro II even more versatile, with more inputs and outputs than any other device of its kind on the market, affirming its place as the ultimate audio production console for content creators.

We created the world’s first compact wireless microphone system with the original Wireless GO and revolutionised the category again with the Wireless GO II and, most recently, the Wireless ME. These latest updates see RØDE continue to innovate in the wireless category, expanding product capabilities and ensuring they offer maximum creative potential.

The Streamer X is a revolutionary new product that combines a professional audio interface and video capture card in a compact, easy-to-use console. It features studio-grade audio inputs for XLR, line-level devices and headsets with an ultra-low-noise, high-gain Revolution Preamp™ and powerful APHEX audio processing delivering pristine sound quality. It also features the same compatibility with RØDE Series IV wireless microphones that will be coming to the RØDECaster Pro II in the next firmware update.

On the video front, it offers 4K30 / 2K60 streaming and up to 2K120 / 4K60 pass-through for incredible video quality in a wide variety of applications, from streaming and gaming, to podcasting and content creation, to business presentations.

Two USB-C connections seamlessly accommodate dual PC setups, and four customisable SMART pads allow for on-the-fly triggering of sound or voice FX and other actions on a computer. It is also fully compatible with RØDE software solutions, including UNIFY, RØDE Central and RØDE Connect for expanded functionality and unmatched flexibility.

The Streamer X represents a new way to livestream with incredible audio and video. Never before has broadcast-quality video and audio capture been possible using a single console. This is the ultimate all-in-one streaming solution.

The RØDECaster Duo is a compact and incredibly powerful all-in-one audio production solution for podcasting, streaming, music-making and content creation. It offers the same unmatched feature set and peerless versatility as the revolutionary RØDECaster Pro II, including the upcoming compatibility with RØDE Series IV wireless microphones. It features the same high-power quad-core audio engine, Revolution Preamps™, APHEX® audio processing and endless customisability as the RØDECaster Pro II – now in an even more compact and portable form factor.

We created the all-in-one podcasting console category with the original RØDECaster Pro in 2018 and, since its release in 2022, the RØDECaster Pro II has been praised as the most powerful audio production console of its kind. The RØDECaster Duo will continue this legacy, delivering everything that users have come to love about its sibling in a more compact footprint – perfect if you require fewer audio inputs but don’t want to compromise on audio quality.

The PodMic USB is an ultra-versatile, broadcast-grade dynamic microphone for podcasting, streaming and content creation. It offers the same incredible sound quality and compact yet rugged form factor as the best-selling PodMic, with a powerful new feature up its sleeve: XLR and USB connectivity.

Fresh off the back of the release of the NT1 5th Generation – the world’s first studio condenser to offer both XLR and USB connectivity – this incredible feature has now been added to the PodMic. When using the analog XLR output, the PodMic USB is exactly the same as the original, albeit with a sleek new finish and studio-grade pop filter.

When using the digital USB output, it offers a range of next-generation features that make it super flexible, including a Revolution Preamp and high-quality analog-to-digital conversion for pristine audio capture, advanced DSP for adding professional APHEX voice processing to any recording, and compatibility with smartphones and tablets for use on the go.

It also features a zero-latency headphone output and on-board volume control and is compatible with the complete RØDE software suite, including RØDE Central, RØDE Connect, RØDE Capture and UNIFY, making it the most versatile microphone ever.

The Backpack is a custom-designed carry bag for the RØDECaster series, including the RØDECaster Pro, RØDECaster Pro II, and RØDECaster Duo. Made from high-quality materials, including a soft, durable Alcantara® handle, ballistic nylon straps and water-resistant exterior, it is rugged and hard-wearing.

It can accommodate a RØDECaster Pro, Pro II or Duo, plus microphones, studio arms and other accessories, as well as laptops up to 16 inches. Ergonomic adjustable shoulder straps with back and chest support ensure absolute comfort, with exterior pockets and compartments providing additional storage.

The Charge Case is a handy charging case for the Wireless GO II. It accommodates both transmitters and the receiver and features an integrated battery that facilitates three full recharges for up to 30 hours of continuous use. With a rugged enclosure and zip system, it is also perfect for protecting the Wireless GO II when in transit or storage.