Coco Austin flaunted her eye-popping curves as she promoted her OnlyFans on Thursday - after being slammed for an 'inappropriate' TikTok video with daughter Chanel, 7.

The Coco's World star, 44, posted a snap of herself sitting on the floor in her shoe closet in a dental-floss like thong and sheer crop top which flashed her cleavage.

'On my IG, Facebook and Twitter pages I post all kinds of stuff that I enjoy while keeping it fun and funny.. On my OF page I keep it sexy. Be sure to follow me,' she wrote.

'FYI Onlyfans changed my name from Coco Austin to just Coco so some of my old links don't work. #thongthursday,' she added.

The IceT Loves Coco star faced backlash after she shared a video of herself and her daughter Chanel, seven, dancing to the Black Eyed Peas' song Boom Boom Pow.

Meanwhile Coco shared the video of her dancing with her daughter on TikTok and Instagram on Tuesday.

In it the she lifted her leg up, and Chanel went to smack her mom's butt twice in time to the lyrics and beat.

'Chanel always makes me do these weird dances I just go with it,' she captioned the post. 'I stole this from her phone to show you. Lol.'

Shocked commenters blew up her comments section writing, 'It is not appropriate for a little girl or her mother' while another said that  Coco is 'passing along all the wrong things as a parent.'

Other commenters praised the fun the mother-daughter duo were having and the bond they share.

One commenter wrote, 'What’s weird about this? This is freaking adorable,' while another added, 'I wish my mom could have been so cool. Such a neat relationship. I wish you guys lived in my neighborhood.'

Another fan pointed out, 'There’s so much going on in the world. Can’t understand why people are so concerned about a mother dancing with her biological baby daughter. #damnifyoudodamnifyoudont'

And that commenter was right as the reactions to her super NSFW snap were more positive than not.

'NO sis you're sexy REGARDLESS. Keep doing what you! You are Blessed,' one fan wrote.

'My Smoke show, love you babe,' another person wrote.

'Baddie ALERT And it’s THICK THIGH Thursday Coco stay winning,' one fan said, adding his own theme to the day of the week.

Coco has faced a lot of scrutiny since she became a mom. In an interview with Tamron Hall in November, she said that she is constantly 'underneath a microscope.'

During the interview, the mom of one broke down in tears over mom-shamers: 'You don’t hear the goodness, you just hear a lot of bad. And I know I’m a good mother.'

The blonde bombshell had her daughter Chanel with rapper Ice-T in 2015 after the couple had been married for 13 years.

Chanel is Coco's only child, while Ice-T, 65, has two other children from two previous relationships.