She raised eyebrows when she was spotted packing the PDA with a handsome new man following her split from Tom Sandoval.

And sparks were continuing to fly for Ariana Madix and fitness coach Daniel Wai after their loved-up trip to Coachella.

The couple were spotted passionately smooching as Ariana, 37,  dropped him off at LAX on Monday.

The lovebirds closed their eyes as they locked lips on the curbside, and even held hands.

She intimately placed her hands around his neck while he held her bare waist.

When they weren't kissing, they gazed tenderly at one another and she cast a smile towards him.

Wai later took to Instagram to reveal he was travelling to New York. 'Back out of the desert,' he wrote in video of him at the airport.

Fans will certainly be happy to see Ariana moving on after her heartbreaking split from long-time partner Tom, who cheated on her with fellow Vanderpump Rules star Raquel Leviss.

One surprising person happy to see Ariana with a new man is her ex Tom.

Speaking with TMZ on Tuesday, Tom said of her recent hookup with Daniel: 'I love that.'

Asked if he wanted her to move on, he replied, 'Yes I do. I really do.'

'I'm really happy,' he said when asked if he was happy she may have found a new person.

He also said he doesn't text her.

Tom also addressed the controversy involving Miraval for implying he would be staying with them: 'I think they were really unprofessional and I think that was pretty tacky for a place like that nature... to do things like that.'

He also said he wasn't going to take any action against them and had no knowledge on how Raquel was currently doing.

He also addressed the on-going interest in the scandal, telling the outlet he believed people needed to move on from the controversy.

Asked if he was surprised by the continued interest, he said:  'It's ridiculous. The people that are perpetuating it the most, you know the squad of it all,' he said, referencing without name some of his female cast members.

Madix's sighting comes after it was revealed Leviss checked into a facility for mental health treatment - amid the continued fallout from her affair with Sandoval.

The reality star chose to enter the voluntary facility before her fling was discovered, reports ET.

A rep for Raquel said: 'Raquel and her family decided before the relationship was discovered that she would enter a voluntary facility for mental health counseling.

Leviss' rep added that she was not in a facility for substance abuse issues.

Last month Leviss issued a statement in which she revealed she was analyzing her own behavior and speaking to a counselor after the affair was exposed.

She said: 'I am reflecting on my choices, speaking to a counselor and I am learning things about myself such as my patterns of codependency and addiction to being and feeling loved.

'I have sought emotional validation through intimate connections that are not healthy without regard for my own well-being, sometimes negatively affecting others and often prioritizing the intimate connection over my friendships. I am taking steps to understand my behavior and make healthier choices.'

As for how their relationship blossomed from platonic to intimate, Sandoval opened up about his attraction to Leviss as he and Madix drifted apart after nearly a decade together.

He went on to explain how he and Madix had begun living their own lives and the romance between them had grown stale during an appearance on Howie Mandel's podcast.

The Missouri native said their relationship overall was 'just lacking intimacy' and 'connection.'

He felt that they were remaining together to 'keep the optics up that [they] were solid' for their reality show and other business endeavors.

Ahead of turning 40, he recalled thinking his life 'looked very bleak' and started thinking his 'best years were behind.'

Before his affair, he said his 'confidence was zapped' and any sexual experience with him would be the equivalent to hooking up with 'a 19-year-old' during 'his second time' as he lost his 'game.'

'I’m not saying it’s [Ariana’s] fault, we just didn’t have that intimacy,' Sandoval claimed.

After hearing his guest's side, Mandel urged fans to have 'empathy and compassion' for Sandoval, who previously said he felt like 'one of the most hated people in America' for betraying Madix.

On March 11, Sandoval apologized for cheating on Ariana with Leviss on social media. He vowed to 'reflect and work on myself' in wake of the infidelity.