COMEDIAN Barry Humphries has thanked well-wishers for messages of support after being rushed to hospital.

The 89-year-old, who is most famous for his character Dame Edna Everage, has been readmitted to hospital in Sydney after suffering a "serious" health setback.

In a statement his family said: “Barry would like to thank every body for the support and best wishes he has received but he would like more and more.”

His family have rushed to be by his side at St Vincent's Hospital in the east of the Australian city.

The famous entertainer recently suffered a hip replacement but has experienced complications, according to Australian entertainment journalist Peter Ford.

Earlier on Wednesday, Ford admitted "things are tough" as he asked Australians to send the veteran entertainer their love.

He added: "I reckon Barry has a fighting spirit and he's not going to give up easily."

His friend, Sky News Australia host Rowan Dean, also gave an update on the comedian's condition.

He said the comedian "never stops laughing and cracking jokes, even if he’s as ill as he currently is, he’ll still be cracking jokes, he’ll still be laughing and he’s always got a wicked sense of humour".

Dean added: "I’m sure some of the nurses in the hospital are still amused by the twinkle in Barry Humphries’ eyes and that irrepressible grin and that irrepressible laugh."

It comes just weeks after Humphries revealed he was in "agony" following a fall at his home in February that left him needing a hip replacement.

He said that the accident took place after he tripped on a rug while reaching for a book.

But he added that he was hoping to be back on stage for his one-man-show later this year.

He told the Sydney Morning Herald: "I have to get back on my feet... I'm going back on tour later this year.

"The result of my broken hip means I now have a titanium hip... you can call me 'Bionic Bazza'."

And he complained that his medical bill "is bloody enormous," joking: "I strongly advise not breaking your hip!"

Humphries had been working with a physiotherapist at a rehabilitation centre in Sydney before suffering a major downturn.

The Melbourne-born comedian has played his famous Dame Edna character for almost 70 years.

In 1955, when he was just 21, university dropout and aspiring artist Humphries created the persona which would see him win fans around the world and meet the Royal Family.

Humphries has been married four times and has four children.

He lives in London with his wife Lizzie Spender, but has been in Australia since December.

It comes just a week after Humphries' friend, painter John OIsen, died aged 95.