Earlier this week Donald Trump seemed to reach the bargaining stage of his grief over his ongoing downfall, when he made a social media post all but begging New York Attorney General Letitia James to drop the case against him, arguing that it would make her look good.

Now Trump appears to be moving on through the stages of grief, but in typical Trump fashion, he’s moving sideways. He now appears to be combining the denial and acceptance stages, in which he accepts his negative fate but refuses to acknowledge why it’s going to happen.

After Trump made a social media post falsely claiming that his 2024 poll numbers are ahead of Joe Biden, Trump added this” “The Dems are working hard on various forms of CHEATING, including Election Interference through the illegal use of Prosecutors, on a scale never seen before. Do not discount their ability to CHEAT!!!”

Of course this famously isn’t the first time Trump has claimed that an election was rigged against him. But in this instance he’s doing it a year and a half before the election. When you claim that far in advance that the other side is just going to steal the election from you, you’ve already given up. You’re not looking to win, you’re looking for excuses about why you’re going to lose.

So why even go there now, when it’s still early 2023? On some level he has to understand that, even as the entire media and pundit class hypes him as being a lock for the 2024 Republican presidential nomination, he’s going to get eaten alive by multiple criminal indictments and trials before that. He knows he’s not making it to 2024.

Trump is trying to put the narrative in place that he was on track to win the 2024 election by a mile before the other side stole it from him. This way, once his weak 55% in Republican primary polling falters due to his criminal scandals and allows him to be overtaken by someone else, and he ends up having to bail on the election, he can tell everyone (or at least tell himself) that he definitely would have won.

What we’re seeing here from Donald Trump is surrender. He understands by now that he has no future. But when his downfall does happen, he really wants to be able to believe that he’s so popular he would have been President for life, if only the other side hadn’t ‘cheated’ against him. We’re now seeing a sad pathetic endgame from a sad pathetic man.