New York City FC star James Sands might be deluding himself regarding his short-lived stint in Scotland, but he won’t be deluding any Rangers supporters.

Speaking after returning to NYCFC in March, James Sands certainly has a lot to say for himself and now he’s out the Glasgow goldfish bowl we’re being treated to yet more soundbites about how he’s great and Scottish football isn’t.

When the defensive midfielder turned defender left Ibrox, James Sands had claimed that Rangers wanted to sign him but the reported £4.5m was considered too big an outlay. You’re telling us.

If New York had managed to procure such a substantial transfer fee for James Sands from Rangers then it would have been the best robbery the city has seen since the Pierre Hotel Heist in 1972.

For all the hot air we see espoused around James Sands, Rangers didn’t see anything near enough on the park from a player who seems likeable off it but all too passive on it.

Now claiming that it’s nice to be back in MLS because he’s getting a challenge, Sands wasn’t saying this when he was getting rag dolled by Ross County defenders, chucking the league to St Mirren, St Johnstone or Livingston, or being genuinely embarrassed in the Champions League.

“I really look forward to those sorts of challenges,” James Sands told the NYCFC website.

“That’s something that I get here in MLS that I didn’t get at all really in Scotland in the league there, so it’s a nice change.

“Those guys will get the better of me sometimes, but it’s all about learning.

“I’m still a young player, and I’m trying to improve, so those are night shifts I really look forward to.”

The comments come after James Sands was called up by the USA for a friendly with Mexico, his first call up since September 2021.

Often used as a utility man, Rangers’ calamitous injury record meant James Sands played more than he should’ve but if you want any evidence of what the Ibrox club thought of him consider his return to New York in March.

The outspoken USA international enjoyed a genuinely poor 14 month stint in Glasgow with the player’s transfer in January 2022 kickstarting a domestic slide which surrendered Scottish dominance to Celtic.

James Sands can talk a good game all wants, heck the New York star can even attack Scottish football, but nothing will ever mask the reality of his time in Glasgow.