* "Love is Blind" became a cultural phenomenon after the first season premiered in February 2020.

* But season one cast members say they were deprived of sleep and had shoddy sleeping quarters.

"Love is Blind" contestants spoke to Insider about the production's problematic culture, which once extended to their shoddy sleeping conditions.

Since "Love is Blind" debuted on Netflix in February 2020, the show has become a bonafide cultural phenomenon, with 30 million households tuning into the first season, breakout stars and villains, and even a rather unfunny "SNL" skit. But according to Insider's bombshell report, the work culture during production was downright toxic, with cast members regularly required to film up to 20 hours a day. It was an unsustainable work schedule that led to some contestants to fall asleep during dates or try to nap during breaks.

"The sleep deprivation was real," said Danielle Drouin, who appeared in the show's first season. (Drouin got engaged to Rory Newbrough during the experiment, but their story wasn't followed after the pods). "I feel like they do it on purpose because they're trying to break you. They want you on your edge."

When season one cast members were allowed to sleep, female contestants retreated to one single-room trailer they shared, filled with bunkbeds. One season one cast member recalled sleeping on a mattress on the floor, because she was worried about the bunks' sturdiness. Some women also noticed cockroaches skittering around.

"There was no privacy, it was cold, it wasn't comfortable," Drouin continued.

After a slew of complaints, the trailer accommodations were swapped out for hotel rooms, although production assistants were stationed in the hallways to prevent cast members from leaving their rooms during the hours assigned for sleep.

Netflix did not respond to a request for comment.

For more on the behind-the-scenes culture of "Love is Blind," read: "Love is Blind" is hell on earth: Contestants say producers deprived them of food and sleep, preyed on their anxieties, and refused to let them quit.