[00:00:24] Entertainment Report.  Billy Gardell reveals he no longer has Type 2 diabetes after losing 150 pounds. Ali Wong and Bill Hader are giving their relationship another chance after splitting last year. Jamie Lee Curtis says she lived with her god son Jake Gyllenhaal during the pandemic.  The Penthouse Apartment from the show Succession is now available for $38 million in New York City. Animal Friends movie is set to star Vince Vaugh, Aubrey Plaza, Jason Momoa and more.

[00:43:12] The Noticer. Netflix is officially winding down the business as they say goodbye to their red envelope DVD rental services. A baby blue spiral image was seen in Alaska during the Northern Lights that looked like a small galaxy. Researchers from Jumonji University in Japan figured out a way to go even higher on swings. PA Governor Josh Shapiro declares Xylazine a schedule III drug.

[01:18:21] Fox Good Day joins and The Bizarre File. Fox Good Day joins the gang and talks to the gang about voice memo text messages and how they work. A 20-year-old woman was shot to death by a homeowner after pulling into the wrong driveway. A teenager was charged after the car he was driving crashed on top of a house roof. A stranger who broke into a woman’s apartment stared at her while she was sleeping and was charged with burglary.  A woman on the British Columbia Sunshine Coast found a bear with a sweet tooth in her car that drank all her soda.

[01:53:44] Period Talk. Kathy tells us about a little mishap she had as it is that time of the month. The gang asks Kathy questions about period hygiene and tools, and what to do when you’re in a situation when something gets stuck. From flex disks to reusable pads, Listeners call in to tell us about their preferences on products to use.

[02:38:32] Survey Says… The gang looks at a few different surveys and talks about their results. They talk about the percentage of teenagers starting physical fights and how many they were involved in.  The gang also reads the results of what woman do if they are cat called, and the percentage of people who think they have the skill to recreate famous paintings.

[03:23:08] The Bizarre File. Two men were arrested on charges that they helped establish a secret police station. A man revealed he felt moving something moving out when he felt a spider in his underwear. In North Carolina, Carowinds amusement park said a 13-year-old boy got stuck in a claw machine who attempted to steal from it. A man is facing charges after he illegally practiced dental work in a hotel.

[03:44:46] Hollywood Trash and Music News. Bruce Springsteen is finally getting his own official day in New Jersey which will be Sept 23rd. Fans are raving about Metallica’s newly released album 72 Seasons. Timothee Chalamet is set to play Bob Dylan in a biopic and will be doing his own singing. Boy George is set to go on tour with Culture Club.

[04:07:05] The Wrap Up. The gang wraps up, with Jacky Bam Bam joining the studio.