Marshall Hamston's mental health will reach a terrifying new low on Emmerdale next week, as a horrified Laurel Thomas finds him unconscious and covered in vomit.

In dark new scenes, Marshasll decides to numb his pain by downing vodka, and is rushed to hospital after Laurel finds him unresponsive.

Marshall has been struggling with his sexuality after suppressing his feelings for his friend Arthur, before being ostracised by his homophobic father.

In the upcoming episodes, Marshall catches Cathy with some bottles of vodka she has taken from the B&B.

The troubled teens head off, intent on numbing their pain, and at the Cricket Pavilion, they share their troubles.

On the road to self-destruction, they both take alternative swigs from the vodka bottle.

As the effects of the vodka take hold, Cathy's green in the face but Marshall has no intention of stopping.

Bob, Laurel and Brenda look for the kids, worried about what they're doing.

As they find them, unwell, Cathy vomits as the parents approach, and as Marshall hands over the vodka, Laurel hopes she's got through to him.

Later, Arthur feels rejected when Marshall takes himself off to bed.

Little do they know that, in his bedroom, Marshall pulls out the second bottle of vodka.

Unscrewing the lid, he takes another swig, determined to keep numbing his pain.

The next day, Laurel lets out a guttural scream as she finds Marshall unconscious with vomit around his mouth... will he be OK?

Laurel had been left fearing she had made a terrible mistake after learning Colin had branded her son a 'pervert' for his sexuality, and tried to help Marshall in a previous episode.

She went round to Colin's house to check on Marshall after Arthur said he had been 'locked' in his room and was horrified to see bruises up Marshall's arm, with the teenager confirming his father had caused them.

Laurel then insisted Marshall would be moving in with her family instead, leading to an enraged Colin disowning his son when an upset Marshall came out as gay in emotional scenes.

Laurel then took Marshall away from his father to live with her family, but it remains to be seen whether manipulative Colin will try and get control back over his son.

Emmerdale airs weekdays at 7:30pm on ITV1 and ITVX.