EVANSVILLE – The Vanderburgh County Sheriff's deputy who died hours after a police training exercise last month died of "exertional sickling" and sickle cell trait, the coroner's office ruled.

Asson Hacker, 33, died on March 2 after reportedly falling ill while undergoing basic training with Southwestern Indiana Law Enforcement Academy. He had just joined the force in December.

Coroner Steve Lockyear listed Hacker's causes of death as "natural" and having been brought on by exertional sickling and sickle cell trait. According to the Korey Stringer Institute at the University of Connecticut, exertional sickling is a condition in which red blood cells change shape during exercise and build up in a person's blood vessels, causing decreased blood flow.

Exertional sickling can occur in people who carry the sickle cell trait.

Hacker was the father of four children and husband to Kourtney Hacker. According to his obituary, he was born in Queens, New York, in 1990. His family eventually moved to Indiana, where he attended Bedford North Lawrence High School. He was a basketball standout for the Stars and went on to play college ball for Olney Central College.

"He enjoyed playing sports with his children, spending time with family, weekend getaways with his wife, and he especially loved his boys," his obituary states.

Before becoming a sheriff's deputy, Hacker worked as a coal miner, and his fellow recruits described him as a top-level athlete. Among Hacker's class was an Evansville Police Department recruit who was hospitalized following the same exercises Hacker was participating in when he fell ill, according to EPD spokeswoman Sgt. Anna Gray.

In a news release, Gray described the exercises as “routine physical tactics.” The Indiana State Police is conducting the broader investigation into Hacker’s death.

More: EVSC denies it's closing a high school that soon won't exist in its current form

Exertional sickling deaths during law enforcement and firefighter training have been documented throughout the United States, according to Dr. Randy Eichner, an Oklahoma University researcher who surveyed the issue in Current Sports Medicine.

In November 2020, the U. S. Army announced it had begun testing recruits for sickle cell trait to "identify at-risk soldiers." Major Sean Donohue, a command surgeon at U.S. Army Training and Doctrine Command, said the screenings were designed to help soldiers differentiate between cases of heat stroke and conditions like exertional sickling.

Tuesday afternoon, Sheriff Noah Robinson said the VCSO was "reviewing the newly released coroner's report and consulting with the Indiana State Police regarding the status of their investigation."

The Courier & Press asked an EPD spokesperson if recruits are screened for sickle cell trait but did not receive a response prior to publication of this article. The Courier & Press also left a voice message with the Southwestern Indiana Law Enforcement Academy Tuesday afternoon.

During Hacker's funeral, VCSO Sgt. Erik Nilssen - who oversees field training and was his direct supervisor - said Hacker excelled at every aspect of his deputy training, a sentiment his fellow recruits shared.

“He felt a calling — a calling to help people,” Nilssen recalled. ”He wanted to be a role model for his children. … He could not wait to get out on patrol to help people.”