MIXED SOCIAL BOWLS are played every Friday under shades from 1pm.  Phone the clubhouse on 41 535 644 by 12.30pm if you would like a game.

Monday 10th April – AM & PM Turkey Pairs – Winners B. Hearn & P. Farrell; runners up L. Moloney & N. McNamara; 2nd runners up B. Heness & A. Powell. Winners of 1st Game R. Murdaca & W. Heath; runners up A. & L. Adam. Winners of 2nd Game S. Jardine & F. Clarke; runners up J. Grills & D. Hart.

Saturday 15th April – Mens “B” Fours – Round 1. J. Russell, K. Hiley, D. Fielding & D. Raggatt d G. Miles, T. Fauser, M. Richardson & D. Harrison; L. Moloney, A. Grills, W. Heath & J. Schluter d D. Harding, M. Attwood, Alex Baigrie & Adam Baigrie. Two very close entertaining Games. Social Winners C. & B. Kenny & B. O’Neill. Sportsman’s C. McNeilly & L. Dunn.

Coming Events Mondays AM. Turkey Pairs – Open (Ladies, Men or Mixed) Pairs. Two games of 11 ends. Pay by 8am, 8.30am Start. PM. Turkey Pairs – Open (Ladies, Men or Mixed) Pairs. Two games of 11 ends. Pay by 12 noon, 12.30 pm Start.

Wednesday  – Turkey Pairs – Open (Ladies, Men or Mixed) Pairs. Two games of 11 ends. 1pm Start.

Friday – Jack Attack Open (Ladies, Men or Mixed) Pairs. Pay by 5pm Start at 5.30pm. All invited to come along and enjoy a couple of hours playing Bowls under the lights and finished by 8pm.

CHAMPIONSHIP SINGLES: 4th. MAY: C Marcinkus V S Sparke.   6th. MAY L Scougall V M Nicol.

NOMINATIONS FOR THE OPEN TRIPLES. B GRADE PAIRS AND B TRIPLES CLOSE APRIL 29th. 2023.

MONDAY 24th. Cards Afternoon. Ring Joan if you would like to join us. ph. 0418185496

Thursday 13th April: Night Bowls: Winners: Ian & Gary Runners up: Brian & Col Sportsman: Robbie & Kingsley. ‘Pick the Joker’ Jackpot was not won and next week will be $90+. Thank you to DNA Property Consultants for their continued sponsorship. Phone Anthony for any Property enquiries on 0435083606.

All 2023 Club Competitions are on the Competition boards at the Club. All members are asked to check the draws and continue to arrange games by mutual agreement. Priority is to be given to the Championship Singles & Pairs as they need to be completed by mid-June.

Congratulations to Phoebie Russell and Keith Whalley for reaching the Final of the District Mixed Pairs on the weekend. They defeated F Dowling & C Dowling (Woodgate) 19-18 by playing an extra end as the scores were tied at 18 all after 21 ends. In the Quarter-Final they defeated S Burgess & W Barnett (Bargara) 22-19 and in the Semi-Final, they defeated J Jones & M Tobin (ATW) 17-11. The Final will be played at Woodgate on Sunday 30th April. Well done and good luck in the Final!

Visitors are most welcome on all playing days. Entry sheets are at the club or phone the Club on 41514217 during opening hours. If you cannot get through to the club number regarding bowls, then phone 0401341378 or 0466539441.

Tuesday 18th April: Open Pairs – Men’s, Ladies, Mixed. Names in by 12pm, green fees paid by 12.45pm for a 1 pm start. The 2 bowl ‘Toucher Jackpot’ will be played after the game and is currently $410.

Wednesday 19th April: ‘Scroungers’ Singles – this is a fun game of Singles similar to consistency singles where points are allocated to the 4 closest bowls to the jack. Games are played over 12 ends with no driving allowed. Names in by 6.15pm with games starting at 6.30pm. Green fees are $8 with 50 percent of the green fees being returned as prizemoney. All ability levels are welcome so come along for a fun night out.

Thursday 20th April: ‘Social Thursday’ Open Pairs. 3pm start, names by 2.30pm. $10 green fees. Games will finish at 5pm with two random lucky draws as prizes.

Thursday 20th April: Night Bowls – bowls start at 6.30pm, names in by 6pm. Bowl under lights and enjoy a fun filled night with a chance at the ‘Pick the Joker’ Jackpot. Visitors and those that want to try bowls for the first time will be made to feel very welcome.

Friday 21st April: Open Pairs – Men’s, Ladies, Mixed. Names in by 12pm, green fees paid by 12.45pm for a 1 pm start. The Friday Jackpot will be $60.

Saturday 22nd April: Open Pairs – Men’s, Ladies, Mixed. Names in by 12pm, green fees paid by 12.45pm for a 1 pm start.

Tuesday 25th April – Anzac Day – the Club will be closed.

The Goose Club raffle will be drawn on Friday night at 7pm. The Member’s Draw was not won last week and will now be $70, so come along, have a meal and a few drinks with the chance to win some great cash and prizes.

Live entertainment for this Friday night the 21st April will be ‘The Other Bloke’ and the following Friday the 28th April, live music will be delivered by ‘Old Bones’ – Members, Guests, and Visitors are always welcome.

Tuesday 11.04.2023:

Ladies Day:

Almost back to normal routine after the Easter Break:

Winning Rink:

Rink 13:

Judy Stanley

Robyn Bishop

Donna Smith

Sportsman:

Rink 13 again:

Tammy a’Beckett

Barbara Doak

Gloria Newby

Wednesday 12.04.2023:

Mens’ Day:

Good to see our Men out on the green today enjoying some time with their mates and enjoying the great game of bowls!

Winning Rink draw:

Rink 11:

Bill Hooke

Christo

Robbo

Runners Up:

Rink 9:

Greg Uphan

Phil Mullins

Gordon Nuttall

Visiting men are always welcome to come along and join us for a game of bowls, some fun and fellowship in the club after the game!

Thursday, Billy’s Day:

Today we had one game in the Mixed Pairs Competition, one in the Ladies Pairs as well as our usual social triples games!

Mixed Pairs:

Rhonda and Robbie Byrnes

Had a win over

Linda and Robbie Hannah.

A great game to watch with four very experienced bowlers giving their best!

Team Hannah hit the score board first up only to get stuck on four points on end four for four ends, bit of a Chinese bad luck story happening here!

Team Byrnes used this marking time to sneak up only to have the same thing happen to them on end seven, seven points but only for five ends!

The score then went up and down never by any more than two until a three on end seventeen gave team Byrnes the lead which they hung on to until the end, taking the win!

The Ladies Pairs also a great game between four of our best  Lady Bowlers:

Jane Herd-Evans and Fiona Dowling

Had a win over

Daphne Brettell and Marilyn Mullins

A great game to watch with the score in no way reflecting the high standard of the bowls played.

Rink Draw Winners, both social bowlers.

Rink 14:

Irene

Rob

Ian

Runner Up:

Rink 13:

Barb

Wayne

Ian

Don’t forget next Thursday 20.04.2023 the big Woodgate Reality Cash Day.

$1000.00 up for grabs, so come along and let’s make Billy work for his money!!

Saturday 15.04.2023:

Self Select Jackpot Pairs:

A lovely friendly day out on our green, played in excellent conditions with the green running to perfection!

Winning Rink Draw:

Rink 10:

Wayne Reis

Robbie Royan

Jackpot Pairs went off!!

Rink 12:

Rhonda and Robbie Byrnes

Meredith and Rowdy Taylor

Congratulations to the winners!

The Jackpot was $300 and will be again next week as it’s built up over the last few weeks, so come along and be in the running to win some money!

Sunday 16.04.2023:

A huge day on our greens today with the semi final of the district pairs, two games in our mixed pairs competition and social bowls as well!

Mixed Pairs Competition:

Veteran Robbie Royan teamed with Robyn Bishop

Had a win over

Karen and Ray Henderson

A great game to watch, with Robbie and Robyn going out to an early lead which they held all through the game.

However never underestimate the determination of the experienced Hendersons who slowly chipped the lead margin away to eventually go down by five.

Dennis Dean and Marjo Greiner

Had a win over

Newcomers Judy and Wayne Stanley

Another great game to watch with the more experienced Dennis being the deciding factor in the match.

A great battle put up by Judy and Wayne in only their second year as bowlers.

Marjo, always consistent held her own.

We are so fortunate to have such high quality games to watch, learn and participate in here at Woodgate

Rink Draw Winners:

Rink 4:

Joy Calder

Rob Hannah

Runners Up:

Competition Game.

Robyn Bishop

Robbie Royan

Consolation:

Anne Sleep

Trevor Christensen