Prime Minister Anthony Albanese has framed the Voice to Parliament referendum as a once-in-a-generation chance for Indigenous recognition, warning Australians against letting the perfect become the enemy of the good.

But Mr Albanese urged voters to learn the lessons of 1999, the last time Australians voted at a referendum, when  splintered after division over the model taken to the referendum.

The prime minister noted that many pro-republic voters unconvinced by that model decided to "wait for the next one", but were still living under the monarchy a quarter of a century later.

Former politician Pat Farmer is running 14,000 kilometres in support of the Voice."If this isn't successful, it's not like a month later there'll be another referendum around," he said.

"People need to recognise that, after such a long period of time and consultation, this is the opportunity that Australians will have ... If not now, when?

"I note that a number of people who say that this is not their perfect ideal, [are] saying they will vote yes [to the Voice], because they recognise that it is on now."

Mr Albanese was speaking in Hobart after launching a pro-Voice campaign by former Liberal MP Pat Farmer, who started a 14,000-kilometre run around Australia to raise support for constitutional change on Monday.

Mr Rockliff, the last remaining Liberal leader in any state or territory, said it was "high time we took responsibility" for generations of Indigenous disadvantage.

"This is about moving forward together as a nation with unity and purpose, and listening to our Indigenous Australians on the best way forward for our nation and for Indigenous Australians to live their best life," he said.

"This is a campaign that should be above politics, because it's about justice. It's about doing the right thing. It's about advancing reconciliation. That's why we're seeing such momentum," Mr Albanese said.

Announcing the Liberal Party would campaign against the Voice, Coalition leader Peter Dutton framed the body as the "Canberra Voice", and argued regional and rural bodies would be more effective at creating tangible outcomes for Indigenous Australians.

"Nothing can be further from the truth ... This is a voice to Canberra from Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people, showing them respect," Mr Albanese said.

His comments came the same day as the two main groups campaigning against the Voice - Recognise a Better Way and Fair Australia - launched an ad blitz running on free-to-air television.

The No camp's blitz, headlined by businessman and former Liberal candidate Warren Mundine - a Bundjalung man - attempts to distinguish between what it frames as "elite" opinion and the views of "quiet" Indigenous Australians.

Warren Mundine has dismissed the Voice as another 'layer of bureaucracy'.The Voice would be made up of representatives from various Indigenous nations, with Mr Albanese revealing it will be gender balanced and include representatives from different age groups.

It would have the power to advise the parliament on issues particularly impacting Indigenous Australians, and would not have the power to veto parliament.

"Things that haven't been successful [in combating Indigenous disadvantage] is the crime rates, the drug and alcohol [problems]. They're local issues that you only can fix on the ground, and that's where they should be focusing," he told Channel Nine.