JEOPARDY! fans have rolled back the tape on an iffy moment during Tuesday's episode.

Internet users were split on whether or not a clue looking for the 1971 film Shaft was family-friendly, while some decided that, regardless, the clue was awkwardly edited.

Returning champ Robbi Ramirez, a writer from Orlando, Florida, faced Kat Jepson, an artist from Virginia Beach, and Mark Sutch, a theatre professor from Concord, North Carolina.

Kat, who won the episode with $20,300, selected the $1200 clue under "One Hot MOMA" referring to exhibits at the Museum of Modern Art in New York City.

Ken Jennings, 48, read: "Gordon Parks' 'Excerpt from' this film about a 'Black private dick that's a sex machine to all the chicks' is at MoMA & we can dig it."

Mark incorrectly guessed "What is: Super Fly," and then Robbi correctly guessed: "What is: Shaft."

The camera then cut to a rare wide shot showing of the clue board and all three contestants.

Contestant Robbi could be heard saying, "Uh," while choosing the next clue over the seemingly spliced-in clip for around three seconds.

Many Twitter users took issue with the clue itself and felt it was pushing the boundaries.

A Twitter viewer grumbled: "This type of language is not appropriate for a family show! How is this acceptable? Having to explain this language to my children while watching your show?!"

Another agreed: "I agree. Puzzling??!! My 93 yo mother was appalled. No need for that question," and a third wrote: "I totally agree with you!!! Disgusting!!!"

However, others quickly defended: "It’s literally at the MoMA" and "It's art at the MoMA for goodness sake. Loosen up, ladies."

A sixth wrote: "Really? 'Dick' has been a slang term for a private eye for decades. Shaft Theme Was a huge hit in the ’70s! Hope your kids don’t watch Family Feud if this offended you!"

However, one more argued: "I like how you all gloss over the sex machine to all the chicks." - to which yet another person argued it was a famous line from the movie.

Meanwhile, on Reddit, more savvy fans spotted the wonky editing of the clue, which there was really no ambiguity about.

A fan shared the clip in an internet thread and wrote: "Weird question and awkward pause tonight.... Alex wouldn't have allowed this."

To which another wrote: "The awkward pause looks like an editing issue."

A third wrote: "That truly is a strange clue for Jeopardy!, whether something was edited or not."

New executive producer Michael Davies recently issued a public apology after a "horrible" editing error in an episode displayed the players' final scores at the very beginning of the game.