The Duke launched the Invictus Games in 2014 for sick, wounded and injured servicemen and women to compete.

This year’s event will take place in Dusseldorf in September featuring over 500 competitors for 20 countries.

Announcing the sixth games, Harry said: “I am delighted to announce that the Invictus Games will be heading to Dusseldorf, for Germany to take the Invictus story further.”

The appearance comes just two weeks before Harry will travel to London for the Coronation on May 6.

It will be the first time Harry has seen his father and brother since the Queen’s funeral and the release of his tell-all memoir and Netflix docuseries.

Despite his attendance being confirmed it is unclear the role Harry will play in the Coronation and procession.

Harry will reportedly skip the Coronation concert taking place the following day at Windsor Castle, in order to get home to celebrate his son Prince Archie’s fourth birthday.

A royal source told The Mirror: “After much back and forth, Harry said that he would be returning for the King’s Coronation but it will only be a fleeting visit.

“Organisers have been told Harry won’t be attending the concert with the rest of the Royal Family, which is a great shame as it will be such a spectacular event.”

Opening his speech on Tuesday Harry spoke in German saying: ‘Guten abend meine damen und herren. First and foremost I would like to thank Prime Minister Wüst, members of parliament, Team Germany and all those gathered here tonight for your continued support. We are just 150 days away.”

Meghan and Harry attended an event to countdown the games in September, just days before the death of Queen Elizabeth II.

Members of the Royal Family rushed to Balmoral in Scotland to be at the Queen’s side after it emerged she was bedridden on September 8.

In his memoir, Prince Harry said he found out about his grandmother’s death from BBC News.

Writing in the book he said: “When the plane started to descend I saw that my phone lit up. It was a message from Meg: ‘Call me when you get this’.”

“I looked at the BBC website. My grandmother had died. My father was King.”

Details around the Coronation schedule are expected to be released in the coming days as the days nears closer.

On Monday the official Coronation programme was released, featuring a surprise picture of Meghan and Harry.

A photo showing King Charles and Queen Camilla with the Prince and Princess of Wales and their children, George, Charlotte and Louis, as well as the Duke and Duchess of Sussex featured.

The photo was taken in the gardens of Clarence House in 2018 to mark Charle’s 70th birthday.

The procession being taken by the King and Queen has also been released, showing a 1.3-mile route from Westminster Abbey back to Buckingham Palace.

The route is much shorter than the 5-mile route taken by Queen Elizabeth II on the day of her Coronation, meaning royal fans will have less opportunity to catch a glimpse of the newly crowned King and Queen.