Something went wrong, please try again later.

Get the latest football news in your inbox for FREE by signing up to our email bulletin

Get the latest football news in your inbox for FREE by signing up to our email bulletin

Erling Haaland has seen a release clause in his Manchester City contract cancelled as the club attempt to keep hold of their goalscoring sensation.

The 22-year-old only arrived at the Etihad Stadium last summer from Borussia Dortmund but is on track to break an all-time Premier League record. The Norwegian striker has scored an eye-watering 47 goals in 40 games in all competitions under Pep Guardiola.

He is just three Premier League strikes behind Alan Shearer ’s all-time record of 34 in a solitary campaign. His form has caught the eye of clubs abroad with Real Madrid continuing to be linked with a move for Haaland.

The Spanish side would have been looking to take advantage of a £150m release clause written into the forward’s contract - something that was set to become active in the summer of 2024, two years into his original deal. However, it appears that steps have already been taken to ensure that Real cannot poach him so easily.

That release clause has already been cancelled as it was linked to Guardiola’s own deal at the Etihad Stadium. The Spaniard put pen to paper on fresh terms last November and will now stay with the club until 2025.

That means that Haaland is set to stay for another two years at the very least and it appears that City are attempting to make that stay even longer. According to The Athletic, the club are set to offer him a new contract at the Etihad Stadium.

How long do you think Haaland will stay at Man City? Share your thoughts in the comments below

Haaland is reported to be happy with the club after his eye-catching debut campaign and he is thought to be open to talks over a renewed deal. After the striker extended his hot form with a brace in the 3-1 win against struggling Leicester, boss Guardiola predicted his striker to continue breaking record throughout his time with the club.

“He can break all the records possible, that will help him,” the Spaniard said. “It’s impressive. He’s close to breaking all of them records. You can put all the statistics you like in front of me - all I can say is that I’m impressed.

“He accepted the decision [to take him off vs Leicester ]. He was excellent as always. He played 90 minutes in midweek, it was good for him to rest.”

Haaland will be aiming to extend his stunning recent form over the next few weeks as City attempt to claim an historic treble. They take on Bayern Munich in the second-leg of their Champions League quarter-final meeting before an FA Cup semi-final showdown with Championship side Sheffield United at Wembley.

Haaland’s current contract at the Etihad Stadium runs until the summer of 2027 following his arrival from German side Borussia Dortmund last year.