Believe it or not, this is what most Mongolians live in. Not far from where this picture is taken is an entire suburb of these. Freaky. “Ger” is the name of these abodes in Mongolian. “Yurt” is the name in Russian. Never heard any of these called a yurt while I was there. Perhaps it’s like Inuit and Eskimo, eh?

Amongst the most interesting things of note in Ulaanbaatar were the following:

That the homeless children lived in the sewers. This of course created quite a hazard as many of the sewer covers were missing. This meant that if you were not paying attention strolling along the sidewalk you could fall in and break your legs or neck or land on a kid and break the kid. How insanely cold and dry it is in Ulaanbaatar. it makes the cold tolerable.How aggressive the homeless children are when they are begging for stuff. They will latch onto you and won’t let go. My driver gave one who latched onto me a serious beating.They drive on the sidewalk. I am serious. No rules.The writing is in Cyrillic and it feels like you are in Russia.I am unable to describe how horrific the food is here. WOW!! There must be a category in the Guinness Book of World Records for Mongolian cuisine and how Mongolian chefs interpret foreign recipes. Imagine you are on an alien planet where someone came into possession of a cookbook from Earth. The chef is looking at a picture of spaghetti. He will say, “Oh, we have long white stringy looking things.” He will say, “Oh, we have a red thick liquid.” He will say, “Oh, we have a white powdery-looking thing.” He will present you with a plate that has the general appearance of spaghetti. But it does not contain tomato sauce, cheese, pasta, or anything made with flour dough. Rather it will be some type of long worm for the spaghetti, congealed blood of some sort for the sauce and some type of lord knows that for the cheese look. That is Mongolian when it is not made up of the face, stomach, and ass of an animal. Amazingly, it was something that presented as an egg salad that took me out. I was so sick that I almost had to be airlifted to China.

I met a guy from Habitat for Humanity while I was there. Each night in payment for somewhat intelligent conversation (I think it was more having someone who spoke English to speak with) he would ply me with beer. Anyway, Habitat for Humanity is building a ton of homes there because the government wants the population to move out of these traditional homes. Not sure why, perhaps just to appear more modern. Each new house costs between 5 and 10 thousand. But rampant government corruption is holding things back. What else is new? A few days after this Jimmy Carter came to town. sucked because if I had stayed a few extra days I would have met him as my daily drinking buddy, there is nothing to do there other than drink, was a director or president or something like that of Habitat for Humanity in Asia or something like that. We were both the hostaged drinking partner of the guy who owned the only Indian restaurant in Mongolia: a very lonely man who just wanted someone to speak English with. lol, A few days after this Jimmy Carter came to town.