We’ve got all the latest news stories and headlines in South Africa you really need to know on Tuesday, 18 April 2023.

President Cyril Ramaphosa has signed into law the Electoral Amendment Bill of 2022, which gives effect to the Constitutional Court judgment.

An old video of President Ramaphosa promising that load shedding would soon be forgotten in 2015 has gone viral again. Watch the video here.

Dr Nandipha Magudumana was asked by the State prosecutor to show her face in court to confirm her identity on Monday.

Zolile Cornelius Sekeleni, Dr Nandipha Magudumana’s father, was granted bail by the Bloemfontein Magistrate’s Court on Monday, 17 April.

Three accused remain in custody. Cornelius Sekeleni must report to the Port Edward SAPS once a week as part of his bail conditions.

The Minister of Health, Dr Joe Phaahla, has said that SA’s snake antivenom shortage is being monitored, but snake experts recently battled to find any after a man was bitten by a Cape cobra in Noordhoek in the Western Cape.

President Cyril Ramaphosa has signed into law the Electoral Amendment Bill of 2022.

ALSO READ: Ramaphosa orders protection for workers with injuries and diseases

The Bill provides for the amendment of the Electoral Act, 1992 (Act No. 73 of 1998). It gives effect to the Constitutional Court judgment that was handed down on 11 June 2020.

The judgment was in the matter of the New Nation Movement NPC & others VS President of the Republic of South Africa Cyril Ramaphosa & others.

Click here to read more.

Watch this video of President Cyril Ramaphosa promising that load shedding would soon be forgotten in 2015.

ALSO READ: Here is why Stage 11 load shedding could be implemented this winter

And the video has again gone viral amid reports that South Africa could soon be facing stage 11 load shedding this coming winter.

This is according to Virtual Energy and Power director Clyde Mallinson. He analysed historical winter load shedding data.

Click here to read more.

Dr Nandipha Magudumana was forced to show her face in the Bloemfontein Magistrate’s Court on Monday, 17 April.

During her first appearance last week, Magudumana was fully covered up in a baggy hoodie. She also wore a K95 COVID-19 mask. Her outfit on Monday was similar.

Click here to read more.

The four individuals accused of helping serial rapist and murderer Thabo Bester escape from the G4S-run Mangaung Correctional Centre (MCC) made another brief appearance in the Bloemfontein Magistrate’s Court on Monday, 17 April.

READ: LOOK: Dr Nandipha Magudumana forced to show face in court after State’s request

Cornelius Sekeleni, the father of Bester’s lover, Dr Nandipha Magudumana, was the only one of the accused granted bail on Monday.

Click here to read more.

The Minister of Health, Dr Joe Phaahla, has said that SA’s snake antivenom shortage is being monitored, but snake experts recently battled to find any after a man was bitten by a Cape cobra in Noordhoek in the Western Cape.

The question everyone is asking, including Michele Clarke MP – DA Shadow Minister of Health, is how is the country’s five-year snake-antivenom supply DEPLETED?

Click here to read more.

Two trucks, one of which was reportedly carrying hazardous materials, collided and burst into flames on the N1 South highway, injuring one person, the Citizen reports.

ALSO READ: WATCH: Call for the removal of heavy trucks from SA roads [Video]

Authorities have closed the road to traffic until they complete clean-up operations on the road surface.

The accident occurred after the N4 Proefplaas interchange in the early hours of Monday morning, 17 April.

Click here to read more.

Take a look at weather forecasts for all nine provinces here.

Stay one step ahead of the traffic by viewing our live traffic updates here.