West Plains, MO. – A Pomona couple is facing multiple charges of forgery and stealing following an investigation where checks were being written from the bank account of a deceased woman. Kimberly Allen and Nathan Rodman, both age 28, are the two suspects in this case. Allen is charged with three counts of stealing $750 or more and eight counts of forgery. Rodman is charged with two counts of stealing $750 or more and nine counts of forgery according to online court documents.

According to the probable cause statement, in November 2022, employees with West Plains Bank and Trust reported several fraudulent checks deposited into Allen’s bank account. The checks were written to Allen and Rodman and were made to look like they had been written by Louann Tabor, who has been deceased since May 2021.

Deputies with the Howell County Sheriff’s Office interviewed Allen in reference to the investigation. After Miranda rights were read to Allen, she stated that Rodman had deposited some checks into her bank account and she thought they were legitimate. She also stated that Rodman wasn’t working and didn’t know why someone would be writing him checks. Allen told authorities Rodman would deposit the checks and then would withdraw a certain amount of money.

The couple had been arrested by the Mountain View Police earlier in November where a checkbook was seized from their vehicle with the name Louann Tabor. When inquiring Allen about the name, she responded that Tabor was Rodman’s middle name and the checkbook belonged to a family member of his.

When officers questioned Rodman about the checkbook, he stated he hadn’t been writing checks from it.

The checks that had been cashed at the bank matched the checkbook that had been taken from the vehicle, according to police.

The couple is scheduled to answer to the charges in court on May 15th for Allen and May 16th for Rodman at the Howell County Courthouse.

Rodman has a history with local law enforcement for arrests including possession of a controlled substance, resisting arrest, and is currently on probation for a 2021 conviction of delivery of a controlled substance.