If your partner gives you the silent treatment, rehashes old arguments or smashes you with cruel taunts you should 'run' according to Constance Hall, who has won praise for her list of relationship red flags.

The mummy blogger warned her fans with the 'signs you're in a relationship with an a***hole' post and urged her followers to leave if their partner ticks the boxes - especially if they regularly deflect blame.

She has also abandoned official terms like sociopath and narcissist and said the thing they all have in common is that they are simply 'a***holes.'

Her first 'sign' that a partner is toxic is if they are 'completely unfazed by your tears or overwhelm in an argument'.

'They keep going at you, you might even beg them to stop and just give you a hug, deaf ears,' she said.

She also noted they have a 'tinge of happiness' when you do something wrong - because they are able to dream up ways to make the relationship 'even again'.

Constance also warned if your partner goes to your support network after a fight there is something wrong.

She also said if they develop a headache or 'fall ill' when you change plans before blaming you for ruining everything you also need to reconsider things, saying these partners 'seem to want to be mad', love doling out the silent treatment and to rehash old arguments.

'They deflect their personality onto the outside world and believe everyone esle has bad intentions,' she added.

They also 'save things in their phone or computer, incriminating or embarrassing things about people to bolster their control. They confuse relationships with court cases and spent their time collecting collateral'.

Other signs are reflected in the victim, she explained.

Many will feel the need to lie so their partner doesn't explode they also become hesitant to answer questions 'in case it is a set up'.

She explained victims will also be less effected by harsh words and be able to 'get over it quickly' and warned people in these toxic relationships often make up a 'fictional version' of their partner's better qualities when talking about them to their friends.

'Your mutual friend group is getting smaller and smaller as your partner constantly falls our with the people you enjoy spending time with,' she said.

She also said if you find yourself asking 'what just happened?' following an argument it isn't a good sign your relationship is healthy.

She added they are also good at trying to make their victims 'feel like the a***hole' by accusing them of 'doing one of the 20 things'.

'They are just deflecting their a***holiness to weaponise the breakdown that they drove you to validate their victim PR campaign. Run Queens. Run,' she added.

Constance admitted she hasn't dated one of these 'a***holes' for a while - but thinking about their behaviour still makes her shudder.

What is Constance's list of red flags? 1- They are completely unfazed by your tears or overwhelm in an argument. They keep going at you, you might even beg them to stop and just give you a hug, deaf ears. As the arsehole rant continues.2- The tinge of happiness.. when you have done something they deem 'wrong' they seem slightly excited by the thought of how much fun they will have making the relationship even' again. Tit for tat, wasn't even cool in primary school.3- Who they turn to. When things are bad they turn to your friends and family for support, it's not their own support they are looking for it's taking away yours. Like telling your mum about your abortion thinking it holds weight. Clearly didn't read the room because between you and your mum you've aborted a whole football team and are ok with it.4- You are hesitant to answer a question incase it's a set up. You feel like you are being constantly set up, someone is waiting to catch you out. You feel yourself questioning 'where is this going?' When any random line of questioning begins.5- Any slight changes of plans cause a headache or worse. Spontaneity is out the window because they will use any change of your plans as an excuse to be mad at you, accusing you of deception.6- They seem to want to be mad. Any excuse will do in order to create and maintain disharmony in the relationship, a lot of the time they are looking for validation for the unacknowledged depression they feel.7- The silent treatment. They love it. They can sleep on it, work during it, go weeks reveling in it. And the silent treatment is not completely silent, oh no they won't give you the satisfaction of being able to call them on it. They will answer yes or no questions and coldly tell you that they aren't mad. It's more of a silent sulk and anyone who's lived with it will do whatever they can to avoid it, by avoiding upsetting the arsehole, so arsehole gets what he wants, all the time.8- Really harsh words don't effect you anymore. It's been normalised, you take it on the chin and get over it quick.9- They love to rehash the argument, they go over every word that you have said in texts or conversations. It's like sitting you down for a quick summery or brainwashing session of what just happened and why it's your fault.10- You find yourself lying, small lies that become bigger lies all to avoid triggering the arsehole and somewhere along the way you became more stressed out over being caught lying then being lied to which is something you don't recognise.11-You find yourself trying to come up with something to say that's interesting enough to get their attention or get them off their phone on a date night.12- You have created a fictitious character with kinder intentions to explain the arseholes actions to your friends and family. (Except your best friend who knows how fucked he is and is politely waiting for the day you leave so she can demolish him in publicly).13- Your mutual friend group is getting smaller and smaller as your partner constantly falls our with the people you enjoy spending time with.14- instead of 'thanks for understanding' You find yourself saying 'what the fuck just happened?' After a disagreement. In fact you say 'wtf' quite often. You even find yourself looking at the sky waiting for the directed from the Truman show to pop out a of cloud and explain that this whole relationship is actually a reality Tv show called 'how much will she take'.15- there is always an excuse for their double standards. The excuse could be so far fetched, 'I had to fuck your friend because a physic told me that your fucked mine in a past life' but they know that the general public hasn't been through their confidence destroying boot camp so soon after these lavish excuses they will generally ask you to confirm that you keep that one between the two of you.16- They deflect their personality onto the outside world and believe everyone esle has bad intentions too. They fob it off as being 'too smart to trust people' but really aresholes don't think they are arseholes so they have to assume that everyone else is an arsehole deep down or their world will fall.17- They save things in their phone or computer, incriminating or embarrassing things about people to bolster their control. They confuse relationships with court cases and spent their time collecting collateral.18- They don't walk your dog and your dog is ok with that.19- An argument is never about the small thing it started over. They will bring anything at all into it in order to keep it going, cross every line you have ever drawn and then tell you that you have 'you have really crossed a line this time'.20- They are obsessive with and find ways to bring up, your sexual history. Like one of my really cool ex's who knew I had once fucked a cop and would get 'funny' (triggered) when we drove past cop with 'quick Con run a red light, you might get lucky' as he seethed red through his laughter.

She also made sure to clarify that the post had nothing to do with her husband, Denim.

'I mean he's a lazy a***hole but the least controlling or manipulative person in the world. If he could wake up more often and learn to clean I'd highly recommend him as a husband,' she said.

'He wants me to be free and happy and follow might dreams unlike some blokes who correlate a free and successful woman to a woman who has left them behind.'

Hundreds of fans praised the list and said it was 'incredibly accurate'.

'It's like you wrote a list to describe my ex husband! It is scary how often we brush away and make excuses for these behaviours with thinking that's what happens when you've been a relationship,' one woman said.

Another added: 'Reading through this list was tough. It's been about 20 years for me but I feel such fresh RAGE when I remember that relationship. My poor parents watching on.

'The worst part about reading this is that I know I'm guilty of a lot of this behaviour at times. I know a lot of it is retaliation for the same treatment from my previous partners… but I'm really going to have to cut this sh*t out… even if it is only occasionally. Reading this really hit home,' one woman said.

If you or anyone you know needs support in a dangerous, violent, abusive or potentially abusive situation contact the National Sexual Assault, Family & Domestic Violence Counselling Line for free and confidential telephone and online service.

If you're in the United States call the National Domestic Violence Hotline on 1−800−799−SAFE(7233) or TTY 1−800−787−3224 or (206) 518-9361 (Video Phone Only for Deaf Callers).

If you're in England: Call the Refuge's National Domestic Abuse Helpline on 0808 2000 247. More support can be found here.