Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi assured that the Egyptian forces present in Sudan are a “symbolic force” for carrying out exercises and not to support one party at the expense of another.

While chairing the Monday evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Armed Forces, Sisi added that the Egyptian state is in continuous contact with the Sudanese army and the Rapid Support Forces, to ensure the security and safety of Egyptian forces in Sudan.

He referred to statements from the commander of the RSF that the Egyptian forces safe under his personal responsibility.

Sisi said that the Egyptian authorities verified these statements in communications with RSF, adding: “We hope to restore the (Egyptian) forces as soon as possible.”

He stressed that the Egyptian state encourages the halting the bloodshed of the Sudanese, a cease-fire and negotiations for the stability of Sudan and the Sudanese.

Egypt’s position is firm on non-interference in the affairs of countries, he said, indicating that “We are intensifying our contacts with the Sudanese side for a ceasefire between the conflicting forces.”

“We are seeking a solution as soon as possible to prevent more bloodshed and deterioration in Sudan,” he said.

Sisi on Sunday held phone talks with South Sudanese President Salva Kiir to discuss developments in the recent situation in Sudan, with Egypt calling for a cease-fire.

The two presidents stressed the seriousness of the current situation, affirming full support for Sudan to achieve security, stability and peace.

They called for an immediate cease-fire in Sudan, wit both leaders expressing the readiness of Egypt and South Sudan to mediate between the Sudanese parties.

EgyptAir, the national flag carrier of Egypt, announced the temporary suspension of flights to and from Khartoum Airport, starting Saturday, April 15, for a period of 72 hours, until it is informed on developments in the situation in Sudan.

In an official statement issued by the company, it said that the suspension comes in light of the information regarding the current unstable situation in Sudan.