Comic books have helped inspire many different characters, themes, and topics throughout popular culture. In fact, some of the world’s most popular (and profitable) franchises have stemmed from the comic book craze of the 1950s and 60s. The Avengers franchise, obviously, takes the cake.

But even Star Wars comics, which were released after George Lucas’s film, took off with audiences. In other words, comics are a great way to explore a storyline further, delving into characters, backstories, and unique adventures. They offer a highly unique and fan-centric take on popular stories and heroes.

Some of the biggest comics will, unsurprisingly, be adapted into video games. Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, for example, was originally a surprise smash hit released in the 1980s. By the 90s, the series was being flipped into an animated series, a live-action movie trilogy, and cult hit video games from Konami.

But what about games that aren’t directly based on comics’ characters and stories? Which video games are adjacent to popular comics—and which titles might bring players closer to their favorite stories? Let’s explore some of the most popular comics and which games they run parallel to.

The game of roulette is one that’s based on skill, chance, and calculated thinking. If you’ve never played the game on a virtual platform like PokerStars Casino or at a brick-and-mortar establishment, roulette may simply seem like a game of excitement. And while it’s certainly thrilling, it’s got a lot going on behind the scenes, including strategy, probability, and bankroll management. Just like a certain Bruce Wayne.

The Batman comics span eighty years and cover a range of themes, from the ill-fated Catwoman wedding to The Last Knight on Earth. Throughout his existence, Batman has displayed complexity on almost every level. He’s certainly a calculated hero, but one who ultimately isn’t afraid to make decisions based on those calculations—and that range fits nicely with roulette’s challenges.

Stepping away from a comic hero’s emotional and mental range for a moment, let’s take a simpler take on video game recommendations. One of the key characteristics of Superman’s character is his ability to fly. For those who want to know what it’s like to soar the skies, there are dozens of titles that let players fly—from Fallout 4 to Skyrim.

But the most realistic is Microsoft Flight Simulator. While you’ll have to navigate via plane rather than superhuman powers, MFS includes realistic depictions of cities that you can explore from 1,000 feet up. This realism is just about as close to the real Superman experience as you can get—though there’s no Metropolis to explore from above.

For fans who aren’t afraid of a little anti-hero sentiment, Diabolik is one of the most unique and memorable comic characters. And anyone who has read the earlier issues of Diabolik, before the titular character starts to develop his moral center, will understand why GTA is a great fit. Just like Diabolik, Grand Theft Auto players get to decide whether to consult their moral compass.

In fact, this was part of what made the early GTA releases so headline-grabbing: the player’s ability to navigate moral systems with no heavy impact for choosing either good or chaos. Diabolik’s character treads a similar line, which captures the same sort of intrigue as GTA releases.

Over the last decade, League of Legends has become one of the world’s most popular games. This multiplayer online battle arena (MOBA) game includes a roster of 140 diverse characters, each of which has its own strengths and weaknesses. Sounds familiar?

If you’re a fan of the X-Men franchise thanks to its incredibly unique and highly fantastical number of mutants, from Muir Island to X-Force to the London branch, then you’ll be pleased with LoL’s similar range of characters. Even better, there are certain skins within the game that are X-Men themed, which means that players can even give a shoutout to their favorite comic in the game. (Intrigued by League of Legends? The game now has its own comic series, titled Lux.)