Reborn Coffee (NASDAQ:REBN – Get Rating) is one of 73 public companies in the “Eating places” industry, but how does it weigh in compared to its peers? We will compare Reborn Coffee to related companies based on the strength of its analyst recommendations, profitability, risk, dividends, valuation, earnings and institutional ownership.

This is a summary of recent ratings for Reborn Coffee and its peers, as reported by MarketBeat.com.

Reborn Coffee currently has a consensus price target of $5.50, suggesting a potential upside of 525.00%. As a group, “Eating places” companies have a potential upside of 7.58%. Given Reborn Coffee’s stronger consensus rating and  higher possible upside, equities analysts clearly believe Reborn Coffee is more favorable than its peers.

This table compares Reborn Coffee and its peers’ net margins, return on equity and return on assets.

This table compares Reborn Coffee and its peers top-line revenue, earnings per share (EPS) and valuation.

Reborn Coffee’s peers have higher revenue and earnings than Reborn Coffee. Reborn Coffee is trading at a lower price-to-earnings ratio than its peers, indicating that it is currently more affordable than other companies in its industry.

62.8% of shares of all “Eating places” companies are held by institutional investors. 67.6% of Reborn Coffee shares are held by company insiders. Comparatively, 16.7% of shares of all “Eating places” companies are held by company insiders. Strong institutional ownership is an indication that large money managers, endowments and hedge funds believe a stock will outperform the market over the long term.

Reborn Coffee peers beat Reborn Coffee on 8 of the 12 factors compared.

Reborn Coffee, Inc. operates and franchises retail locations and kiosks that focus on serving specialty-roasted coffee in California. The company purchases, roasts, and sells coffee, tea and other beverages, and various food items. As of September 30, 2021, it operated 7 retail locations. Reborn Coffee, Inc. was founded in 2014 and is based in Brea, California.

Receive News & Ratings for Reborn Coffee Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Reborn Coffee and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter.