RYAN Connor is ready to face the aftermath of his acid attack but he gets a heart-breaking update on his condition this Wednesday.

Here's what you can expect to happen on Coronation Street this evening.

How will Ryan Connor cope in the wake of his acid attack?

The Bistro waited portrayed by Ryan Prescott has avoided the topic of his injuries although doctors refuse to discharge him before he's seen them.

Ryan gets support from Carla Connor (played by Alison King) tonight on ITV as he assures the surgeon he's ready to look at his injuries.

But as he stares at his own face, he gets a devastating and life-changing update on his condition.

Ryan suddenly vanishes from his hospital room, leaving Daisy Midgeley (Charlotte Jordan) and Carla to organise a search party.

Meanwhile, Faye Windass (Ellie Leach) continues to get closer to former teen flame Jack Hodge just as Beth Tinker (Lisa George) reconnects with her own former boyfriend Marco.

But how will they react when they both end on dates with their exes in the same place and at the same time?

Elsewhere in the cobbles, Stu Carpenter (Bill Fellows) is due for a huge payout following a wrongful murder accusation and Roy Cropper (David Neilson) displays troubling symptoms that could hint at a major health scare.

Weatherfield has seen many faces appear before, sometimes, abruptly leaving throughout the decades.

While many have moved on to what may have been greener pastures (or were brutally killed off), some have resided in the cobbles since day one.

Coronation Street has many stalwarts among its residents which most notably include Ken Barlow portrayed by soap icon William Roache.

Other long-standing residents include beloved hairdresser Audrey Roberts aka Sue Nicholls who has been known for her numerous romances and a feud with fellow stalwart and former nightclub singer Rita Tanner, portrayed by Barbara Knox.

Audrey also has a link to one of Corrie's most memorable families - the Platts.

For years, Tina O'Brien, Jack P. Shepherd and Helen Worth have been thrown into plenty of explosive storylines including feuds (especially with Sue Cleaver's Eileen Grimshaw) murder and adultery.

The trio may have gone through rough times but, much like the Webster family, have always stuck around Weatherfield.

Kevin Webster has been played by Michael Le Vell for decades and is one of Corrie's longest residents, much like his former wife Sally Metcalfe, portrayed by Sally Dynevor.

A reputable mechanic in Weatherfield, Kevin shares a business with yet another stalwart - Tyrone Dobbs played by Alan Halsall.

Tyrone was taken in by the legendary Jack and Vera Duckworth and has remained in Weatherfield ever since, where he met the love of his life, Fiz Stape aka Jennie McAlpine.

Much like Tyrone, and throughout her own drama which even included an ill-fated relationship with Kirk Sutherland (Andy Whyment), Fiz was able to rely on fan favourite Roy Cropper.

David Nielson has been portraying the eccentric and endearing café owner since 1995.

With fresh drama in the works, Coronation Street residents could still be coming and going - and here's where you can keep track of it all.

Coronation Street has been a staple of British TV for several years - more than six decades to be exact.

Numerous generations have been able to binge on all the drama in the cobbles since 1960.

The soap opera's first ever episode aired on ITV on December 9, 1960, with Ken Barlow being one of its main characters.

As mentioned above, William Roache has been present in Weatherfield since day one and was first introduced to viewers as a 21-year-old student, bickering with his working-class father Frank.

It was most notably thanks to Ken that soap fans got a glimpse of the Rovers Return Inn, Corrie's iconic pub, for the first time.

William Roache is the only member of the original cast to still reside in the Street.

A cobbled haven for drama, heartbreak, betrayal and even serial killers, Weatherfield is based on Salford, located in Greater Manchester.

The town has always been chosen to host Coronation Street's plotlines.

Cameras had initially been set in the old Granada Studios on Quay Street before moving to the ITV Studios in Trafford Park.

Much like the set of fellow ITV soap Emmerdale, fans can have a wander on the set of Coronation Street.

Visits last for 90 minutes and take place in Coronation Street, Rosamund Street and the newly extended Victoria Street.

The tour was re-opened in early 2022, following the Covid pandemic, and is only available on selected dates to avoid any interferences with filming.

Many moments have left Corrie fans with goose bumps and their jaws dropped to the floor.

While many serial killers have walked the cobbles, Richard Hillman was one of Weatherfield's biggest villains.

He not only beat Maxine Peacock to death with a crowbar, he was ready to drive Gail Platt - his own wife - and her children into the Canal.

Not many soap fans can listen to The Wannadies' You And Me without thinking of Richard and that would remain a part of his legacy as, although the Platts survived the ordeal, he didn't.

Another murderer was made when Tracy Barlow, who has come and gone from the cobbles over the years, decided to make her former boyfriend Charlie Stubbs pay for his infidelity.

After faking a pregnancy, making him pay for an abortion and spending the cash on a pair of shoes, Tracy bludgeoned Charlie to death while lap-dancing to Oasis before making out it was in self-defence.

But Corrie also had its fair share of heart-warming and trailblazing moments, making history with the life and death of Hayley Cropper.

Hayley was introduced to viewers as a transgender character in the late nineties - which was far from common at the time.

Born Harold, she went through her transition before coming to Weatherfield and began to date an oblivious Roy Cropper.

She eventually told him the truth and, after some resistance, Roy realised Hayley was the only one for him.

The beloved character was then part of another pioneering storyline when she discovered she had terminal cancer.

She died in Roy's arms, after asking him to end her life, thus igniting the debate around voluntary euthanasia.

Coronation Street airs every Monday, Wednesday and Friday from 8pm on ITV.

Fans were thrown when the show was moved to its previous time slot of 7.30pm in early 2022.

However, this meant they would be treated to three-hour-long episodes a week, as opposed to the usual half-hour instalments they had grown accustomed to.

The soap has been subjected to many shake-ups throughout the years, most notably due to The World Cup in late 2022.

Fans can then catch up with all the drama online, over on ITVX.