He ultimately died as a result of alcohol poisoning, with Poland's National Prosecutor's Office saying that he had a lethal blood-alcohol content of at least 0.4 percent at the time of his death.

A total of 58 individuals have also charged for allegedly being part of an organised crime group after several clubs were raided, including Wild Night, as confirmed by local police.

More than 700 criminal charges have been filed against the group, according to the Polish Central Police Investigation Bureau (CBSP), who also claimed the group worked to get customers drunk before robbing them.

It was claimed that he was already drunk before entering the club and had attempted to refuse any additional drinks to avoid getting more intoxicated.

"One of the leads investigated by the investigators in the case concerns the victim who was driven to a state of intoxication, causing loss of consciousness, and then death as a result of acute alcohol poisoning," a statement from CBSP explained.

"The man was not given medical assistance during the incident. Provisional arrests were made against those suspected of this act."

Mark's sister, Samantha told The Sun that the claims of him being intoxicated was not true and that 'nobody was being held accountable' for causing her brother’s death.

Samantha also alleged that her family had not been kept up to date with the police investigations, which has led to her family feeling 'forgotten' about during the ordeal.

She said: "The last we heard from the serious crime squad - who were investigating Mark's death and dealing with the inquest - was that they weren't looking into the crimes and goings on in those establishments.

She also left a comment under the club's review page, saying: "My brother's death in this vile establishment needs to be made aware of!"

At the time of his death, Mark’s mother, Pat told Teesside Live: ”He didn’t have a bad word about anyone, and nobody had a bad word about him.”

And his dad, Graham, called him 'Leeds United mad', adding: "That was my fault, and he loved going to see them, we had season tickets and we watched them win the Championship in 1992.

“He had loads of mates at work and he was popular all over Loftus. He loved his holidays, and he was always socialising.

“He was a hard working lad, he used to do overtime on the weekends because he knew he had to, if he wanted to enjoy himself.”