The pool at Villa Olmi Firenze, a hotel in an 18th-century villa in Florence, Italy.

Luxury hotels offer indulgent stays, but often cost several hundred to thousands of dollars a night.

However with careful planning, it's possible to find five-star hotels around the world for far less.

Top editors give you the stories you want — delivered right to your inbox each weekday.

Thanks for signing up!

Access your favorite topics in a personalized feed while you're on the go.

By clicking ‘Sign up’, you agree to receive marketing emails from Insider

as well as other partner offers and accept our

Terms of Service and

Privacy Policy.

I'm a luxury travel writer and compiled a list of hotels that start at $150 a night or cheaper.

As a longtime travel writer with a focus on luxury hotels, I've had the opportunity to stay in some of the world's most lavish five-star properties.

I've been writing about luxury travel for years. In the process, I've become a devoted fan of of five-star brands such as the Four Seasons, and have been lucky enough to visit their properties in Bali, Marrakech, Costa Rica, and all over the US and Mexico. It's become a favorite for attentive and anticipatory service, as well as high-end pools, spas, and dining concepts. At other luxury properties, I've enjoyed amenities like a loaner Lexus vehicle, monogrammed pillowcases with my initials, international airport transfer by way of a private plane, and pools for my exclusive use.Naturally, these places are very expensive, with entry-level price points beginning well above $1,000 per night.Indeed, Luxury Travel Magazine reports that luxury hotels in the US average around $884 per night, while destinations in Switzerland, Austria, and Italy come in around $1,000 per night or more, and islands like Fiji and Bora Bora can cost well over $1,000 a night.

But when I'm not traveling for work, I do try to stick to a budget. It can be hard to do that and maintain a high sense of luxury. But it's not impossible.

The author at an airport.

While I'm not sure I can ever go back to only staying in three-star hotels without fluffy robes and turn-down service, I do still have to stick to a budget.Fortunately, I've learned that spending major cash isn't always necessary to experience the world's most gracious hotels. Through my research into brands I know and verifying their price points and amenities online, I find it's possible to travel strategically to countries where US dollars go far, and a luxury stay costs a fraction of what it might elsewhere. I rounded up these properties, which all have attractive guest accommodations, amenities, and grounds that rival more expensive places I've visited. And while I haven't personally been to all of these hotels yet, I definitely plan to, especially now that I know they meet my high standards. From sprawling resorts to intimate villas, here are luxury-leaning properties that start under $150 per night for entry-level accommodations, based on results on Google hotels at the time of this writing.Editor's note: Any costs referenced in this article are accurate as of April 12, 2023. Readers are encouraged to check these prices as they may have changed since.

SYNA Heritage Hotel in Khajuraho, India, starts at a mere $35 a night, and has lush grounds and a large swimming pool.

The hotel has 28 rooms and suites.

This luxurious hotel in Khajuraho, India, has 28 intimate rooms and suites that overlook manicured gardens. Heritage architecture lends a charming, historic vibe made grander alongside a large swimming pool and an on-site restaurant for all-day dining.Even the cheapest, most basic rooms here come with views of the expansive gardens, while more deluxe rooms and suites include thick-pile carpets and carved furnishings, according to the hotel website.Use this hotel as a launch pad to explore the Hindu and Jain temples in nearby Madhya Pradesh, a UNESCO World Heritage Site that is famous for nagara-style architecture and erotic sculptures.

From just $56 per night, check into Mansion at Bali in Ubud, Bali, set on a lush jungle estate with five pools.

The property has five pools.

Ubud is the heart of Bali's artist region and one of my favorite destinations I've been to thanks to stunning jungle landscapes, a laid-back vibe, and great vegetarian food.It's also home to this tropical estate surrounded by coconut palm trees with five pools ranging from small and tranquil to large and social.The property has 155 accommodations, according to its website, from deluxe rooms to penthouse suites. Even the cheapest rooms are set within peaceful courtyards dotted throughout the property's gardens.Plumeria is the resort's plant-based and pescetarian restaurant and bar, making use of herbs from its aquaponics garden for hyper locally-sourced ingredients.The on-site spa has treatments like traditional Balinese therapies and modern med-spa techniques, and there is also daily yoga, and a museum of fine art from around Bali.

Plan an island escape at Sandalwood Luxury Villas on Koh Samui in Thailand, from $64. The 14 villas come with balconies positioned around nine private infinity pools.

Savor panoramic views of the Gulf of Siam from this luxurious yet budget-friendly boutique hotel on the island of Koh Samui in Thailand.Located between popular Chaweng Beach and Lamai Beach, the hotel has 14 spacious villas with balconies that are positioned around nine private infinity pools. According to the hotel, each villa has Thai design details like intricate carved wood, panoramic ocean views, and range in size up to three bedrooms. Some come with amenities like outdoor soaking tubs in addition to pools, and all are linked by landscaped gardens and stone pathways. At the hotel, Blue Ginger Restaurant serves authentic Thai food with locally-sourced ingredients, plus some Western menu options. And the gilded Sanctuary Spa provides treatments amid fragrant tropical gardens, or in two private air-conditioned rooms for couples.

Stay at Riad Palais des Princesses & Spa in Marrakech, Morocco, starting at $84 per night, with spacious rooms, a day spa, and wellness center.

Jemaa el-Fnaa, the city's main square, is within walking distance of the hotel.

Marrakech is another of my favorite places in the world; I love the sheer feeling of opulence all around. When I'm here, I've observed intricately-detailed architecture, perused incredible markets, and enjoyed artfully-presented tea service.I think this affordable hotel makes it easy to appreciate all those things, in addition to its oversized rooms and baths, and decadent spa treatments at accessible price points. The hotel is just a short walk from Jemaa el-Fnaa, which is the city's main square in the center of the medina, and a personal paradise for shopping. The riad, which is a type of traditional Moroccan house that usually has an interior garden, has an indoor pool flooded with natural light surrounded by arching columns, as well as a day spa and wellness center with hammam, hot tub, and a range of massages and beauty treatments.Airy guest rooms are located around a central courtyard with flowers, palm trees, and a flowing tiered fountain, and some have four-poster beds, according to the website. A daily buffet breakfast is available, and served on the terrace.

Located on the scenic Philippine shores of north Bohol, The Bellevue Resort is a sustainable beachfront hotel ensconced in luxury starting at $86.

The resort has a spa, fitness center, and kids' play area.

Located on the tranquil Philippine shores of north Bohol, this Panglao Island resort is affordable, and also sustainable.The hotel is a two-time ASEAN Green Hotel awardee, meaning it adheres to minimum standards for a wide range of environmental criteria including water and waste management, collaboration with the community, human resources development, and more. The property has also been heading up responsible tourism efforts in Bohol since it opened more than a decade ago, and makes use of eco-friendly principles and energy conservation measures, according to its website.Additionally, guest rooms and suites have a sleek, architectural look with enormous windows and dark woods in clean lines, as seen on the website.The property also stands out for a sparkling pool, fitness center with ocean views, a spa, and a kids' play area with slides, rocking toys, and playhouses.

Cleopatra Luxury Resort has a private beach on Egypt's renowned Sharm El Sheikh, and starts at just $100 per night.

A beach on Sharm El Sheikh in the area of Nabq Bay in Egypt.

The luxurious  Cleopatra Luxury Resort is located in Egypt's beach resort destination of Sharm El Sheikh, in the area of Nabq Bay. But you won't have to mingle with crowds; the hotel has its own private beach along the Red Sea with cabanas, umbrellas, and beach massages available. There is also a sprawling main outdoor pool with activities, a family pool, as well as an infinity pool, according to the hotel website.The five-star property has 324 rooms and suites with views of the gardens, pools, Red Sea, and Tiran Island. Each accommodation has dark wooden detailing offset with a pop of color from headboards, pillows, or other decor details.Additionally, there is 24-hour room service, tennis courts, three bars and lounges, and four restaurants ranging from Italian fine dining to Mediterranean seafood. It's also family friendly, with a kids' club and outdoor play sets and slides.

Hotel Villa Olmi Firenze is an 18th-century villa with frescos, a pool, and castle-like grounds just two miles from Florence, Italy, starting at $137 per night.

The hotel is set on the grounds of a 18th-century villa.

Hotels in Italy might seem expensive, but Hotel Villa Olmi Firenze is an affordable option tucked away in the countryside just two-and-a-half miles from Florence.Set amid lush grounds within a centuries-old park, the luxurious, historic hotel is housed in an 18th-century villa that includes multiple buildings, frescos, a pool, and castle-like grounds.Guest rooms in the farmhouse building are Tuscan-inspired, according to the hotel website, with exposed beams and terracotta flooring. And in the villa building, opulent 18th-century frescoes and stucco work are restored alongside Murano glass chandeliers, the hotel's website states.The on-site Il Cavaliere Restaurant uses ingredients from the local land, including a vegetable garden that is adjacent to the kitchen.When weather permits, take a dip in the turquoise pool surrounded by green lawns and trees, enveloped in the aroma of jasmine from the surrounding gardens.

Stay in a luxury cave room in Cappadocia, Turkey, at Kayakapi Premium Caves, starting at $150 per night.

The hotel is built into caves in the side of a mountain.

I'm fascinated by this luxurious property with a story to tell. It's located in a historical neighborhood supported by UNESCO and the World Heritage Center, and is built right into caves in the side of a mountain. The property is perched on a hill overlooking Ürgüp, just about a 10-minute walk from the city center.Here, the cave rooms, suites, and mansions range in size from more than 350 square feet to a whopping 2,700, according to the property's website, though the latter will admittedly cost a lot more than $150.The hotel also has a rooftop restaurant, wine cellar, 24-hour room service, and a pool that nears 1,000 square feet framed by views of the city of Ürgüp. There is also a spa with Turkish baths, a sauna, and fitness center.