Kristen Farrah, the “Lose You To Love Me” singer’s makeup artist, posted a lovely photo of Gomez wearing the outfit on Instagram. The Rare Beauty businesswoman wore a white v-neck tee and a lace-decorated camisole underneath the sweater.

Gomez’s cardigan has a silver star adornment and tiny black stripes around the low neckline and cuffs of the sleeves. The singer of “My Mind & Me” styled her curly brunette hair in a chic updo to ape Taylor Swift’s glossy look from the “Cardigan” music video. Gomez’s bangs were worn down, perfectly framing her face.

Farrah said that Gomez’s makeup included a pale peach Rare Beauty blush, as well as eyeshadow and lustrous lipstick in a color quite similar to that. The Dead Don’t Die actress completed her look with a smokey cat-eye, thick lashes, and winged black liner.

Gomez arrived at the performance with her younger sister Gracie, who was dressed in a 2012 Red-era style. “I want to thank you, bestie, for letting my sister and me inside your enchanted, ecstatic, and unique world. Happy to have met you! Love you always and forever,” Gomez said on Instagram with pictures from the performance.

Naturally, fans adored the cardigan as evidenced by the comments on Farrah’s post, and many also found Gomez’s tribute to Swift to be heartfelt. One person commented, “I love their friendship!” while another added, “Besties goals forever.”

Fans are aware that Gomez and Swift have a long friendship history and first connected through the Jonas Brothers in 2008. “We dated the Jonas Brothers together in real life! It was hilarious,” Gomez said in 2017 to KISS FM UK.

Because Taylor was the girl with the long, curly hair, numerous bangles, and cowboy boots, it was particularly spectacular. We just clicked, and I was absolutely up-and-coming,” Gomez continued, adding ironically, “It was the best thing we got out of those relationships.”

With their famous selfies, birthday shoutouts on social media, coordinated award event premiere outfits, and unending support for one other’s music careers, the two have since given us huge bestie ambitions.

We also adored Gomez’s surprise appearances during Swift’s Reputation Tour, her appearance in the “Bad Blood” music video, Swift’s appearance on Gomez’s cookery show, and their sweet TikTok collaborations. Now, the only thing Swifties and Selenators could possibly hope for is a musical partnership…