Wednesday, 19 April 2023

Stars including Tony Hadley and Paul Young have teamed up to record a single for Wildlife Aid Foundation in Leatherhead

The pop super group is today releasing their own version of Chesney Hawkes’s hit The One and Only. Money raised from the sale of the single will go towards funding a new HQ for the animal hospital. The charity’s founder, Simon Cowell, was diagnosed with terminal lung cancer last June and building the centre is his “last wish”.

One

of  many reasons why we are so useful to South West London...

our very own news team bringing you stories that are relevant to you

and your area.

If you have a press release

or would like to send in news then pop off an e-mail to [email protected]

Follow Jackie News at twitter.com/jackie_news.

News Team - - Local news 24 hours a day

Lucy Mayer

Lucy is the News and Travel Editor. Find out more about her on the Presenters page.

Luke Williams

Luke spends his free time playing synthesisers and watching old sitcoms. Journalism helps remind him of the 21st century.

Chloe Norman

Chloe presents both news and travel - find out more about her on the Presenters page.

Alex Loveridge

Alex loves watching tennis at Surbiton and Wimbledon and also plays a bit too. He swims at Richmond, but not in the Thames.

Mike Oban

Mike enjoys playing and watching sports and is a budding football coach.

Jacqui Kerr

Jacqui enjoys all sports and has had a go at most! She loves talking, current affairs, music, and walking her polar-bear-sized dog.

David Walker

David´s philosophy is you only live once so go out and grab every opportunity no matter how small.

John Beesley

John lives in Hounslow. He enjoys beer and singing with barbershop quartets and choruses, though not necessarily in that order.

Clare Whitehead

Clare is a playwright, an experienced voiceover artist and the narrator of several audio books. She loves dogs and ballet!

Jiji Ahn

Jiji can often be found visiting galleries, trying new cuisines and researching the latest trends and stories.

Holly Carnegie

Holly presents both news and travel - find out more about her on the Presenters page.

Alex Duke

Alex loves watching football, but also enjoys tennis and Formula One. He swims and hikes regularly and is a self-confessed history nerd.

Megan McElroy

Megan grew up in SW London and is interested in all things news.

Roshni Chouhan

Roshni loves playing tennis and everything related to music. SHe has been told she has a hidden talent mastering accents.

If you are researching a news story from the past our archive goes back over many years.

Please email [email protected] with any enquiries.