Film veterans and those interested in being a part of the entertainment industry in Calgary will soon have a new space to call their own.

The International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees (IATSE) Local 212 offered a glimpse into its newest project Monday — a cutting-edge, 10,000-square-foot training centre it aims to launch in 2024.

The new facility hopes to train individuals from the entertainment industry and enable them to stay competitive in the market.

"We already have some of the best crews in the world; this new training centre will help us maintain that reputation," said Damian Petti, IATSE 212 president.

Petti added that the team hopes to collaborate with different stakeholders from the film fraternity, including those looking to make a mark in the industry, such as students in need of placements and on-set training.

From stagehands to hairstylists and other crew members, the centre will focus on offering different training opportunities to new and experienced professionals, giving them a chance to keep up with new technology while prioritizing safety on film sets.

Alberta NDP Leader Rachel Notley, who was in attendance at the groundbreaking ceremony, said it's exciting to see the project take off as the local entertainment industry continues to grow and contribute to Alberta's diverse economy.

Alberta Jobs, Economy and Northern Development Minister Brian Jean echoed this sentiment and explained why his department is drawn to the entertainment space.

"We're interested in this industry because we believe it's the best way to diversify our economy moving forward by working with industries coming to Alberta and bringing money and talent back from places that it was going before," he said.

Notley pointed out that one of the biggest perks of union-led training programs is that health and safety structures are never downplayed.

"Good health and safety is where you see industry and workers coming together to take action to make sure workers can be safe," she said.

Notley said the local film industry needs more support from the government to stay relevant while trying to attract more large-scale productions like The Last of Us to Alberta.

"We know actually B. C. is very aggressive in terms of the incentives that they use … so we need to match up," she said.

Petti said the team hopes to launch the new training centre in about 11 months, adding that several supply chain problems have now been resolved.