We have good news and bad news for “Star Trek” fans. The good news is that there’s a new “Star Trek” film in development, with an Oscar-winning actor in the lead role. The bad news is that this isn’t a film that will ever grace the big screen, and it doesn’t have any connection to the feature film franchise that folks have been clamoring to see revisited.

READ MORE: Screenwriter Mark L. Smith Talks Working With Quentin Tarantino On His “Really Wild” ‘Star Trek’ Script

According to Deadline, Michelle Yeoh is set to star in the upcoming straight-to-Paramount+ streaming film, “Star Trek: Section 31.” Fans of ‘Trek’ TV series can already see where this is going, as Yeoh is set to reprise her role as Emperor Philippa Georgiou, a character she played during her run on “Star Trek: Discovery.” This is a project that has been in the works for years now, dating back to that aforementioned series’ first season, but had been developed as a TV series previously. Now, it appears the project has been retooled as a feature film, but it will still make its debut on Paramount+, joining the rest of the ‘Trek’ TV franchise.

Yeoh is coming off what might be the most successful year of her career, having appeared in the lead role in the Oscar-winning film, “Everything Everywhere All at Once.” Her role led to a number of award wins for Yeoh, including the Oscar for Best Actress, marking the first time an Asian woman had taken home that trophy. With that in mind, it’s clear the ‘Trek’ franchise has to be excited to have the Oscar-winning actress back on board for anything at this point.

“I’m beyond thrilled to return to my ‘Star Trek’ family and to the role I’ve loved for so long,” said Yeoh. “‘Section 31’ has been near and dear to my heart since I began the journey of playing Philippa all the way back when this new golden age of ‘Star Trek’ launched. To see her finally get her moment is a dream come true in a year that’s shown me the incredible power of never giving up on your dreams. We can’t wait to share what’s in store for you, and until then: live long and prosper (unless Emperor Georgiou decrees otherwise)!”

READ MORE: ‘Star Trek 4’: Paramount Loses Negotiation Leverage As Cast Is Reportedly Shocked By Announcement

As mentioned above, this might not be the film news that many ‘Trek’ fans were hoping for. Paramount has been desperately trying to get a new, proper ‘Star Trek’ feature film off the ground for years now, but the development seems to always run into some sort of snag. We’ll still have to wait and see what becomes of that.

Production on the streaming film is expected to begin later this year. If that pans out, you can probably expect to see “Star Trek: Section 31” debut on Paramount+ sometime in 2024.