Kiev. Russian President Vladimir Putin visited the command center of Russian troops fighting in Ukraine early Tuesday. This is his second such visit in the last two months. The officers provided this information. At the same time, Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelenskyy also visited the Donetsk province on Tuesday where fierce fighting with Russian troops is going on. Putin has made this visit at a time when the 14th month of the war is about to happen and it is believed that Ukraine is preparing to retaliate against Russia with the help of Western countries.

Putin arrived on Kherson tourA video released by the Kremlin and aired on Russian state television showed Putin visiting the command center of Russian forces in the southern Kherson region. In this, Putin is seen reaching there by helicopter to get information from top military officials about the situation of the war. He then left by helicopter to brief the commander on the situation in the eastern Luhansk region. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Putin made the visit last Monday and was the second by Putin in the last two months.

Also read this news: Flight-hotel spent only Rs 135 in a 7-day foreign trip!

Putin was wearing a green suitVideo footage aired on state television showed Putin, dressed in a dark suit, meeting with top officers of his military at both locations. However, it was not told where the military base is, making it impossible to estimate their distance from the battle front. It is also nearly impossible to independently verify videos released by the Kremlin of travel to these areas.

Also read this news: ‘Granddaughter born from grandmother’s womb’ 56-year-old woman became the mother of her own son’s child, know what is the whole matter

Zelenskyy also reached the frontZelenskyy also went to the frontline on Tuesday to encourage the troops where they are fighting alongside Russian soldiers. According to the Office of the President of Ukraine, the President went to Avdivka in the Donetsk province and there he received information about the war from the soldiers and honored them. Ukraine’s Kherson and Luhansk as well as Donetsk and Zaporizhzhya provinces were annexed by Russia last September after a local referendum. However, western countries rejected the move and termed it as shameful. Zelenskyy’s adviser, Mikhailo Podolik, condemned Putin’s visit, accusing the Russian leader of being the leader of “degeneracy” and the mastermind of “mass murders” in the war.

Also read this news: Female teacher fell in love with student, got married after getting gender changed

The governor of Donetsk also reached BelarusMeanwhile, in a parallel development, Denis Pushilin, the Moscow-appointed governor of Donetsk province, has visited the Belarus capital Minsk and managed to get a promise of support from Belarus President Alexander Lukashenko. According to analysts, Pushilin has made this trip with the consent of the Kremlin and wants to send a message to Kiev that Belarus may also be involved in the Russia-Ukraine war.

Also read this news: ‘My boyfriend gave birth to a child, he didn’t know she was pregnant’

NATO countries bridging Ukraine with weaponsAt the same time, Secretary of the National Security and Defense Council of Ukraine, Oleksiy Danilov, said that Ukraine’s partners are helping to collect heavy armored vehicles and other materials, including ammunition, to retaliate against Russia. Three civilians were killed and 11 others were injured in Russian attacks on Monday and Tuesday, according to Ukraine’s presidential office. The office said most of the casualties were in Donbass, which includes Luhansk and Donetsk provinces. At the same time, six people were injured by cannon balls in Kherson city.

download app To read the latest news of your city, download Sanjeevani Today App

Read the Latest India News Today on The Eastern Herald.