Balbix, the leader in cybersecurity posture automation, announced the addition of advanced Application Security (AppSec) and risk management capabilities to the Balbix Security Cloud platform. Enterprise cybersecurity teams can now efficiently identify, prioritize, and mitigate application vulnerabilities while accurately quantifying application risks in monetary terms. As with all other Balbix platform features, these capabilities work in a unified way uniformly across cloud-based and traditional applications. These new features demonstrate Balbix’s focus on providing the most comprehensive attack surface visibility and automation for cyber risk management.

In today’s digital landscape, businesses rely heavily on software applications to engage with customers and manage operations. The recent increase in application component vulnerabilities, such as Log4j, Spring4Shell, and OpenSSL, emphasize the importance of robust application security measures. Balbix’s AppSec and risk management capabilities are vital to securing applications, minimizing business risk and protecting customer data.

AiThority: The Use of AI in Hollywood

Balbix’s new AppSec module provides deep visibility into an organization’s application inventory by automatically deduplicating, normalizing, and unifying application vulnerability data from multiple cybersecurity, IT and business tools. Balbix’s unified risk model now incorporates application risk in monetary terms, providing organizations with an enhanced view of their cyber risk posture in business language. This enables security teams to prioritize and remediate application security vulnerabilities based on risk, in near real-time. Balbix’s advanced AI capabilities provide for unparalleled automation, which eliminates numerous manual tasks and allows security teams to focus on high-priority issues.

With its unified risk model, Balbix goes beyond traditional AppSec vendors to offer security teams comprehensive Cyber Asset Attack Surface Management (CAASM) capabilities, advanced Risk-Based Vulnerability Management (RBVM), and Cyber Risk Quantification (CRQ) use cases. Unlike other AppSec solutions, Balbix’s approach provides a holistic view of cyber risk that enables organizations to prioritize and address the most critical risks.

“Software application vulnerabilities are a growing concern for organizations, as the risk of data breaches and cyber-attacks continues to rise,” said Ed Amoroso, Founder and CEO of research and advisory firm TAG Cyber. “Balbix’s new AppSec capabilities help organizations identify potential vulnerabilities and implement effective security measures to prevent adversaries from exploiting them. By providing a normalized source of truth for application inventory and vulnerabilities, Balbix enables businesses to gain a comprehensive understanding of their security posture and make informed decisions regarding risk management and resource allocation.”

Read More: ChatGPT Won’t Replace Your Marketing Job, But it’s Critical to Leverage for Success

Balbix’s AppSec features not only stand-out at discovering and prioritizing application vulnerabilities and quantifying application risk, but they also provide a crucial link between the application layer and the underlying infrastructure. This is achieved through an industry-first application-to-infrastructure mapping capability, which allows businesses to visualize the relationships between their applications and the infrastructure on which they depend.

Gaurav Banga, Founder and CEO of Balbix, underscores the critical nature of effective application security in today’s rapidly evolving threat landscape. “Our mission at Balbix is to help organizations enhance their cybersecurity posture through maximal automation and AI. By introducing our new AppSec capabilities, we’re advancing that mission, equipping security teams with the tools necessary to swiftly and accurately identify, prioritize and fix vulnerabilities in their applications.”

[To share your insights with us, please write to sghosh@martechseries.com]