The question has to be asked – is it ethical for doctors and nurses to strike? As the impact begins to be felt, the political messaging becomes stronger and, inevitably, more vitriolic. Edwina Currie Tweeted that every doctor on the picket line has left a patient in pain on the wards. This comment encapsulates the main ethical argument against striking – that it causes harm. The uninformed who believe that every doctor stands in a large hall and recites the Hippocratic Oath after receiving their medical degree, opine that doctors must not cause harm, and therefore cannot strike. Yet, healthcare workers (HCW) around the world strike due to pay and conditions, so it would seem that this objection is invalid. The Oath argument cannot only apply to the UK.

Before exploring harm, we should discuss briefly the general principle of industrial action (IA). Although some right wing commentators object to the very idea, few reasonable people would wish to dial back history through the efforts and sacrifices made to ensure representation and reform in our society. However, the trade union movement was born among the working classes, and observations have been made (by the Department of Health and Social Care) about how relatively well-paid doctors are. By inference, this questions the moral validity of asking for more through IA. Present day representation in parliament would be unrecognisable to those who congregated (and died) at Peterloo in 1819, and trade unionism has spread widely since the Tolpuddle martyrs were transported to inclement lands (Australia and Tasmania) in 1834. Few 19th Century activists could have predicted that doctors strikes would be part of their legacy. Yet no-one is challenging the legality of strikes, and governments have done what they can to ensure that strikes in important public services cannot be called without significant support among union members (50% turnout and 40% support in ballots). IA is part of working life in this country, and there is little point in challenging its validity.

HCW who strike must accept that they contribute to a temporary reduction in medical workforce (obviously!). Although emergency pathways are largely protected by redeployment of colleagues, other activities cannot be done. These are elective investigations, procedures and operations, some of which are actually urgent. There are probably no patients ‘left in pain’, but there are patients left on waiting lists, and some of those will deteriorate. The most visible groups are those with cardiovascular disorders that might destabilise at any moment (coronary artery or valvular disease), and those with cancer whose tumours might advance or metastasise over several weeks of delay. Given that there are tens of thousands of patients with these conditions, it seems likely that some will suffer more, and some may even die. We can choose to call that outcome ‘harm’.

But it is not so simple. Healthcare related harm occurs through error, i.e., inadvertent omission or commission. Healthcare related harm is usually done by people working within systems who are there, not by those who are not there. We would struggle to find a root cause analysis that draws a solid line between an individual’s absence and a patient’s harm or death. Take sickness. When HCW are ill, they do not attend work. If cover cannot be arranged (a very common situation) we do not presume that harm ensues. If we add up all the sick days taken in a typical year (and bear in mind that sickness among nurses runs between 3% and 5%) it is reasonable to infer that quality of care is reduced relative to ideal outcomes in fully staffed departments. If we are to accuse striking HCW of causing harm, we should apply that association (absence = harm) across the board. This may sound rather semantic, but the point is – we need to be very clear what we are talking about when we throw the word ‘harm’ around in this debate.

The unions’ usual riposte to a proposed connection between IA and harm is that striking HCW are trying to create a better future for patients. As things stand in the NHS, we are not in a great place. Nursing vacancies are running high, many are exhausted after the demands of COVID-19, doctors’ rotas have gaps, juniors are drawn to the Antipodes (a now clement land), others take years off to clear their heads. The BMA and RCN will point out that we are living in an era of excess avoidable harm through inadequate staffing, and that IA is the only tool available to shake the government out of its refusal to address the issue. The BMA says that restoring pay in line with relative losses against inflation will attract more young people to a career in healthcare, resulting in hospitals working at establishment, correct ratios of patients to HCW, improved quality of care and better outcomes. If they are right, they have the moral high ground.

This argument in favour of IA also relates to the duty of all HCW to escalate concerns about patient safety and do something about it. A few months ago Dr Rita Issa (UCL Institute for Global Health) was featured on BBC Radio 4’s Moral Maze, where she explained that IA was an available tool to observe this duty. At the time I thought this was a stretch, but let’s consider it further. You are a doctor or a nurse routinely observing what you perceive as unsafe conditions due to under-staffing. What do you do? There are local actions, such as complaining to line managers and submitting incident forms. These may, if clearly connected to specific instances of significant harm, result in some internal strengthening of certain areas or departments, but this means moving resource away from other areas (unless extra funds are made available to employ bank staff or locums). Beyond these, there are no other actions. So when your trade union organises a ballot for IA, you are bound to vote in favour if you truly believe that change is required.

The BMA’s behaviour has not been universally supported among HCW. During the first strike, it got side-tracked into arguments about how much money consultants should demand for covering junior roles. To some, this diluted the messaging and came across of plain unhelpful to Trusts that were trying to maintain emergency services. For the second strike, the BMA chose four days straight after the long Easter break, a time when hospitals ae generally full and many consultants plan to be on leave. This looked like a conscious decision to hurt the NHS in a vulnerable spot. Was it ethical? IA has to be impactful, otherwise employers can carry on providing a service without too much inconvenience for a year or more, during which time striking workers are likely to lose heart. In healthcare, greater impact means more than inconvenience, but an insidious effect on society’s overall health (due to lengthening waiting lists). If we believe and accept that this is a form of harm, then high impact = more harm. Higher impact could be defended if the result is a swifter resolution (pay restoration) with arrival at a rosier future where employees are happier and more numerous, but getting there will hurt… and not only the patients, as I will now explain.

If you are a junior doctor or nurse, you must decide whether to strike or not to strike. There is no middle ground. You come to work or you don’t. The thoughts behind the decision may not be so binary. You might agree with the argument, but feel unable to strike for personal reasons, in which case you are not contributing to the collective action. Or you might be lukewarm about the argument, but feel compelled to strike through union membership (what’s the point of belonging otherwise?) and solidarity. These grey zones illustrate how difficult it must be for HCW involved in IA. We talk a lot about moral injury in healthcare, where staff are unable to provide the care they feel that patients need and deserve; I think the current IA is causing a whole new level of moral injury. People want to work, and to look after patients, but cannot, for the reasons given above. This comes hard on the heels of a pandemic that was itself a hugely potent source of moral injury. Harm is being done to HCW, and it may play out it various ways during the remainder of their careers.

An individual’s personal, internal justification for IA requires them to look up, away from the potential harm that is likely to be done my collective withdrawal of labour, to the bigger picture: to the future. I believe this is harder than it sounds. I have seen juniors strike and I do not think they take this action with relish or enthusiasm. I think it hurts. No conscientious HCW likes to stay away from work: doing so means leaving their teams, their trainers, and their patients. It is not an easy step. The broader justification clashes with the here and now, that is, the undeniable stress that IA puts on the hospital, the scrabbling to patch rotas together, the thousands of texts and phone calls to patients informing them that their appointment has been cancelled (again). No doctor or nurse would want to consider too long the connection between their decision to strike, and the consequences on their organisation. If they did, the appetite to strike may well fade.  I suppose this is what the government is counting on – that over time the internal conflict felt by many will grow, and the strength of the unions’ mandate for IA will fade. Only strong leadership and clear, morally persuasive messages can maintain the will to carry on the fight.

If the strikes have to go on, it will be necessary for the unions to demonstrate an understanding of these ethical dilemmas. This means balancing impact against harm, and careful explanation to both the public and union members as to how strikes are being planned to achieve that balance. It could be argued that this is not the time for nuanced messages; only deep impact will be noticed. Could the RCN and BMA combine strikes, leaving hospitals floundering? The suggestion in the media is, no. There are limits, it seems.

What of the governments role in this? Any discussion about ethics should also apply to it; this dispute involves two sides, after all, and senior politicians have the power to move the situation beyond its current impasse. If harm is done, responsibility for it cannot sit in one place. Our leaders can see the effect that IA has on waiting lists; they have the data. Brinkmanship is a strategy, but in this argument time means lives. This is uncharted ethical territory for the NHS, and as the weeks or months of IA go on, we will learn much more about its boundaries.