After a week's worth of sunshine and clear skies, Wisconsin saw a burst of snow overnight and into Monday with more than 10 inches of snow dumped onto the western part of the state.

The Milwaukee area mostly missed any significant snow but hazardous conditions continue to develop on roads. The story is different in Appleton, Green Bay and Oshkosh, where heavy snow is still falling.

As snow is starting to taper off this morning, here is what you to know about this spring snowstorm:

The Milwaukee area saw less than an inch of snow, while early reports from the Madison area show 2 inches of snow and with this weather system expected to end early this afternoon those numbers will likely stay the same.

However, the National Weather Service is still warning about hazardous conditions developing on roads as 511 Wisconsin is reporting hazardous conditions on the I-94 corridor past Oconomowoc towards Madison.

While conditions are expected to dry up on Tuesday another storm system is already heading toward Wisconsin and will likely bring rain to Madison and Milwaukee as temperatures continue to rise later in the week.

The heaviest of the snow in the Green Bay, Appleton and Oshkosh areas will persist through mid to late morning, then likely taper off through the afternoon.

Similar to the Milwaukee area, more central lakeshore communities will see minimal snow, but hazardous road conditions remain a major concern.

Snowfall reports for Green Bay, Appleton and Oshkosh are still coming in. In Wausau, there are already reports of 8 inches.

Western and central parts of Wisconsin were the areas most affected by the snowstorm. Places like Northfield saw 22 inches according to the weather service.

The area most likely to see heavy snow on Monday is La Crosse, already with 9 inches of snow on the ground, while nearby cities like Onalaska, are reporting 13 inches with more snow on the way.

Snow in western Wisconsin is expected to end by 9 a.m. Until then, the narrow band continues to move through the area bringing 30 to 40 mph winds and the possibility of 1-2 inches of snow per hour.