This is a carousel. Use Next and Previous buttons to navigate

Oakland Mayor Sheng Thao addresses members of the community while sitting alongside members of her administration and other city officials during a town hall about public safety on Monday, April 17, at the Fruitvale-San Antonio Senior Center.

Ismael Beltran, owner of a a Fruitvale jewelry store, addresses city officials during a public-safety summit at the Fruitvale-San Antonio Senior Center on Monday. He says he has asked for more security cameras to be placed near his business for years to no avail.

Oakland Mayor Sheng Thao (right) listens to members of the Fruitvale community during a public safety summit at the Fruitvale-San Antonio Senior Center on Monday.

District 5 Council Member Noel Gallo speaks with a local business owner during a public-safety meeting at the Fruitvale-San Antonio Senior Center on Monday.

Jasmine P. (center) and Evenlyn R., a student at MetWest High School, address Mayor Sheng Thao and law enforcement officials during a community meeting at the Fruitvale-San Antonio Senior Center.

Oakland Police Capt. James Bassett and BART Police Lt. William Spears attend the public-safety town hall at the Fruitvale-San Antonio Senior Center on Monday.

Frustrated business owners and residents in Oakland’s Fruitvale district this week urged city leaders to create a public-safety plan to increase security in the Fruitvale Transit Village and business corridors, where at least three separate shootings occurred in the last month.

About 50 residents and merchants gathered Monday evening at the Fruitvale-San Antonio Senior Center at a tense public-safety town hall with Mayor Sheng Thao; Council Member Noel Gallo, whose district includes Fruitvale; officials from the city’s Department of Violence Prevention; and law enforcement officers from the Oakland Police Department and BART.

The purpose of the meeting, hosted by the nonprofit Unity Council, was for community members to share their experiences with violent crime in the area, suggest solutions and demand more resources from the city. The nonprofit manages the Fruitvale Transit Village, a mixed-use development located across from the Fruitvale BART station that includes apartments, offices and retail spaces.

A second meeting is planned for sometime in May, said spokesperson Caheri Gutierrez.

Small-business owners, youths, longtime residents and community leaders told city officials that they do not feel safe in the Fruitvale district because of the recent shootings and other crimes they have witnessed. Many people criticized the Police Department for what they described as a slow response to 911 calls and called for a substation and more officers to patrol the area.

Others urged the city to come up with solutions that do not involve police officers because they said many Black and brown people in Fruitvale, which is a predominantly Latino and Indigenous neighborhood, do not trust or feel safe around police. Instead, they said, they want to see more community and mental health resources offered to people.

Monday’s meeting occurred just three days after a shooting in the 3300 block of East 12th Street left a woman injured. Two weeks ago, a shooting inside a business at the Fruitvale Transit Village left two men with gunshot wounds. A suspect has been arrested in the latter shooting, and both investigations are ongoing, said Oakland Police Capt. James Bassett.

According to Oakland Police Department data, 22 violent crimes have been reported so far this year in the surrounding area that includes the Fruitvale Transit Village and the nearby International Boulevard business corridor. That’s about 38% fewer than this time last year, the data shows. The violent crimes include homicides, rapes, robberies and aggravated assaults.

Bassett told the crowd that the Police Department relies on community organizations and other city departments to work together to address crime because “our resources are so stretched.”

Last year, Oakland police assigned community resource Officer Ernesto Leyva to patrol the Fruitvale District in response to an uptick in robberies. About 50 additional officers were deployed in East Oakland this year. In February, the city announced it was sending a team of one sergeant and six officers to patrol different business corridors after businesses expressed concern over robberies.

Bassett said the city’s recent efforts have helped the department address crime. “The results, I think, can be seen in the statistics,” he said.

The Unity Council also hired security guards last year for the Transit Village, said the group’s CEO Chris Iglesias.

Thao said everyone deserves to be safe and that her office was in attendance to hear the community’s concerns and collaborate on solutions.

“I want to work with you to see what we can do different to ensure that you feel safe, not just at the businesses, but at home and as a community as well too,” the mayor told the crowd.

But residents pushed back, saying the data does not tell the complete story of what’s happening in Oakland’s streets — for example, they said, crimes can go unreported.

Rubi Avila, the daughter of the owner of the Churros Mexicanos stand in Transit Village, said her family business and others were losing customers due to safety concerns. “Customers have got their purses snatched while paying,” Avila told The Chronicle. “It’s very sad.”

Ismael Beltran, the owner of a nearby jewelry store, demanded the city add more security cameras to the area, adding that he’s been making that request for at least three years.

“Everybody here is a small business, and we’re tired” of the crimes happening every week, he said.

Gallo, the council member, said cameras are set up throughout the business corridor and that some businesses don’t have them on. He said he would help those without cameras set them up.

Other residents and youths said they don’t want to see more police officers — instead, they want more resources allocated to the neighborhood.

“If you have the power and funds to open a substation, you should use that power to keep working with organizations like (Communities) United for Restorative Youth Justice that are run by people in the community,” a speaker said. “Since those who are closer to the problem are also closer to the solution.”