PAYTON Washington was set to cheer in the 2023 All-Star Cheerleader World Championships.

However, she will not be able to participate in the competition after being shot in Elgin, Texas on April 17, 2023.

She has had a successful athletic career so far and has received much recognition for her accomplishments.

As Fox 7 reported, Woodlands Elite Cheer owner Lynne Shearer said of Washington: "She’s literally an icon in the world of all-star cheerleader. I mean, definitely at our gym, but literally all around the country she has so many little kids look up to her."

Washington signed to be on the fall 2023 Acrobatics and Tumbling team at Baylor University.

Shearer said: "We were so excited when she signed, she actually signed early, as a junior."

As reported by Fox 7, on Monday, April 17, 2023, Washington was heading home from a cheer practice at Woodlands Elite in The Woodlands, Texas, with three of her teammates.

Their cars were parked in the H-E-B lot on East 290 in Elgin.

A source "close to the investigation" told the outlet that one of the cheerleaders attempted to get in the wrong car by mistake. Once she realized her error, she turned to walk away to her own vehicle.

25-year-old Pedro Tello Rodriguez Jr. was in the mistaken car and "fired multiple shots at the girls" with a gun.

The publication also reported that "one cheerleader was treated and released at the scene." Washington is in the ICU after being airlifted to a nearby hospital.

Washington was supposed to cheer in the upcoming 2023 All-Star Cheerleader World Championships but will no longer be able to participate.

According to Fox 7, Shearer said: "She’s won every title there is to win in All-Star cheerleader except for a world title, so that makes this super heartbreaking for her."

Although she is unable to compete herself, Washington's teammates will show their support for the star athlete at the World Championships.

Shearer said: "I don’t know what we’re going to put on the floor, but we will be there, and we will definitely all be competing for her."

As Fox 7 reported, Rodriguez was arrested on Tuesday, April 18, 2023. Elgin authorities said he left the H-E-B parking lot following the crime, and police "worked through the night" to find him.

According to the outlet, he was charged with deadly conduct. More charges may be filed.

Washington's friends and family are confident that the star cheerleader will recover from her injuries, according to Fox 7.

Shearer said: "She literally was born with one lung, so she from the very beginning as a baby, she wasn’t even expected to survive, let alone, excel in athletics, so she’s surpassed a lot of things already."

The outlet also reported that Baylor Acrobatics and Tumbling Coach Felecia Mulkey said: "Payton is a strong young lady, if you know her, you know that about her. I have no doubt she’s going to get through this. She’s an amazing athlete but a better human, and that’s why she’s a part of our Baylor family.

"My prayers are with Payton and her teammates that were involved in last night’s tragic event, I know mental wounds also leave scars. We want to lift up the athletes and their families during this difficult time. We love Payton, and we wish her well as she recovers."

A GoFundMe has been created to assist with Washington's medical expenses.

The page states, in part: "Three of our Generals and one Red Angel were viciously shot at last night in a senseless and random act of violence. Payton was shot twice and badly injured. She is stable in the ICU and will have a long road to recovery."