Allow me to set the tone: you have a super important task you must accomplish (an essay to write, an exam to study for), a hobby that you know if you just dedicated a few more hours of practice to a week you could perfect, a skill you’d like to fine-tune, a routine you’d like to establish — but you just can’t bring yourself to do it. No matter how much you feel like you want this (which you really, really do), you just cannot seem to muster up the willpower to start or maintain the process. As someone who has been there one too many times before (and, if we’re being honest, still occasionally finds myself there now), I know how absolutely detrimental this cycle can be. But fear not; there are steps you can take to help get the ball rolling in the right direction.

Procrastination is technically a form of stress relief, and we can often fall victim to procrastination when we feel overwhelmed by the task or goal that we are trying to achieve (at least I know I do). It’s very easy to feel paralyzed by the larger picture, so breaking down the task or goal into smaller, more bite-sized chunks can make it feel more manageable. For example, if your desired goal is to begin a skincare regime, an easy place to start would be washing and moisturising your face before going to sleep every night, before jumping into that TikTok-approved 22-step routine. Baby steps!

Once you have your goal broken down into more manageable tasks, plan to begin implementing the baby steps into your schedule. Big paper due in a few weeks? Plan and schedule some time every week leading up to the due date to write a few pages for it. Not only is it much easier to write 2-3 pages a week versus writing 10 the night before it’s due, but it actually takes up much less of your time in the long run. Planning or scheduling time to accomplish the smaller tasks will also help with holding yourself accountable.

This is the part of the process that I tend to have the most difficulty with — the phrase “mind over matter” is very relevant to this step. More often than not, the will to continue aiming for our goals, no matter what the goal may be, fades rather quickly once the initial motivation wears off. This is where the previous two steps come in handy. By breaking down the goal into smaller pieces and physically scheduling or planning to accomplish the tasks, you build a foundation of sorts to carry you through the times in which you don’t have the motivation to provide with the momentum to persevere onwards. Even when you don’t feel like putting in the effort necessary, by still doing the work you’d planned, you’re working on building the habit of being disciplined — showing up for yourself even when you feel like you don’t have the energy to do so.

If my memory serves me correctly, I believe it can take up to 30 days of performing the same task for that task to become a habit (don’t quote me on it, though). By showing up for yourself and completing both the big and small goals that you set for yourself, you can turn self-discipline into a habit. Once this skill is a set-in-stone habit, it will make staying on task, managing your time effectively, and the practice of setting and accomplishing goals much easier. Consistency is key!

Although it’s easy to become swamped by the bigger picture, I’m hoping these tips offer you the reassurance, as well as the confidence, to know that no matter how big the task or goal may seem, you can relax knowing that you will accomplish it!