Looks like Malaika Arora and Arjun Kapoor are taking their romance game to a whole new level on their Eurotrip. The lovebirds are painting the town red with their social media PDA and recently shared some mushy pictures from their visit to Scotland’s Salsburgh, complete with a postcard-worthy view.

Arora’s caption, ‘All warm n cozy, that’s how I feel around you’, tagged her beau Arjun, and the post went viral in no time. Even Sussane Khan, couldn’t resist showering them with love and left a comment with some red hearts and heart-eyed emojis. Looks like love is indeed in the air, and these two are leaving no stone unturned to flaunt it.

VJ Anusha Dandekar also commented with a bunch of red hearts on their cute memories. Saba Pataudi wrote, “That’s the way it’s meant to be.” The duo is certainly giving us some major relationship envy with their Europe diaries, amid wedding buzz.

Arora had also shared a stunning picture of herself walking down a street, looking oh-so-cool in yoga pants and a puffer jacket. The backdrop was simply breathtaking, and the actress seems to be standing against the entire world. She captioned the post with, “Where the streets have no name.”

Before Austria, Arora and Kapoor were in Berlin. And how do we know this juicy piece of information, you ask? Well, the star herself spilled the beans on Instagram with her Liftie series selfies.

The photo dump begins with a stunning black-and-white shot of the couple posing like the fashion icons they are. Next up, we get a glimpse of their all-black look, and it’s giving street-style extraordinaire. But the real showstopper is the final frame, where Arora looks super chic in a cardigan dress. She captioned the post with, “My Liftie series….#Berlin. (sic)” It’s official, Malaika and Arjun are slaying it on their European getaway!

In case you didn’t know, the duo made their relationship Insta-official back in 2019, and they have been going strong ever since. The couple has been together for a few years now, and it’s safe to say that they’re head over heels for each other. Prior to Kapoor, Arora was married to actor Arbaaz Khan for 19 years and has a son, Arhaan Khan, who is currently pursuing his studies in the US.

The Gunday actor had previously spoken in an interview about dating his lady love. He said, “The nicest part about being with her is that she has a sense of understanding of this profession. She knows what I am going through. She has been able to silently be there and she tells me the right things that keep me in the right frame of mind.”

Meanwhile on the work front, Kapoor was last seen in Kuttey. The film, directed by Aasmaan Bhardwaj, was released in January. Radhika Madan, Tabu and Konkona Sen Sharma were also part of the cast. Arora, on the other hand, was last seen giving the Kardashians a run for their money with her reality TV show, Moving In With Malaika.