The BBC has confirmed its presenter line-up for the coverage of the King's coronation next month.

Anita Rani, Huw Edwards, Clare Balding, JJ Chalmers, Sophie Raworth, Kirsty Young and radio presenters Mishal Hussain, Martha Kearney and James Naughtie will host the coverage of the Coronation of The King and The Queen Consort on 6th May.

Kirsty will return to front the live broadcast of the Coronation Concert, taking place on the 7th May, while Clara Amfo and Jordan Banjo will be positioned backstage to chat with artists performing on the grounds of Windsor Castle.

Here's the coronation coverage explained – including who's presenting what – and how you can watch it below:

On the day of the Coronation of His Majesty The King and Her Majesty The Queen Consort (6th May), Kirsty will be in a studio at Buckingham Palace and former Strictly star JJ Chalmers will speak to members of the military preparing for the parade.

Huw Edwards will provide commentary as the doors of Westminster Abbey and Sophie Raworth will be outside speaking to guests as they arrive. Meanwhile, Clare Balding will provide commentary for the ceremonial route, and Anita Rani will join the gathered crowds.

Martha Kearney will be in the studio for BBC Radio and Sounds, while Eleanor Oldroyd will report live from Westminster Abbey. There will be expert insight and analysis from BBC Royal Correspondent Jonny Dymond.

Mishal Husain and James Naughtie will be reporting from different parts of the processional route to capture the atmosphere for those tuning in at home.

The BBC says coverage will be on BBC One and iPlayer with a signed version on BBC Two. There will also be accessible coverage for people who are blind or partially sighted on Red Button, hosted by Petroc Trelawny.

The BBC has yet to confirm the official line-up performing at the concert on the grounds of Windsor Castle, but they have announced the presenters.

Kirsty Young will be back to anchor the live broadcast, set within the grounds of Windsor Castle, where the concert will take place that evening on the castle's East Lawn.

BBC Radio 1 host and Strictly star Clara Amfo and Diversity's Jordan Banjo will be backstage to chat with the artists performing at the special event, attended by 20,000 members of the public, including guests from various affiliated charities.

The concert will also feature a world-class orchestra play a host of musical favourites alongside world-class entertainers and performers.

On BBC Radio 2 ahead of the show, Zoe Ball will be speaking to the performers, while Dermot O'Leary will be amongst the crowds.

You can watch the Coronation Concert on BBC One, BBC iPlayer, BBC Radio 2 and BBC Sounds.

The King's Coronation begins on BBC One on 6th May.