Shortly after the settlement was reached, CNN reported that part of the terms of the settlement was that Fox News will not have to acknowledge on air that it promoted lies about Dominion during the 2020 election.

Fox News got away with EVERYTHING. No matter how anyone tries to spin this, Fox News got away with helping Trump incite a riot and attempt a coup.

And it’s sickening that we have to rely on a corporation to expose the cancer that is Fox News, because congress refuses to admit the problem exists. It is sickening that they will never have to tell their audience that they lied, and it is sickening that the entire Fox News Cinematic Universe will now lie that they were totally exonerated or some shit like that, while they incite the next mob for the next coup attempt.

Fox News got away with it. All the fascists on the air at Fox News got away with it.

And when Smartmatic comes up, Fox News will get away with it again.

It’s just appalling to me that we don’t have laws in America that would prevent a propaganda organization like Fox News to do all of this and to get away with it.

News Corporation will make all of this money back, and more. Dominion’s executives will be rich beyond their wildest dreams. Everyone is happy, and nothing will change. Stop saying a big fine is a big deal. It isn’t. Actual, meaningful accountability -- including AT A MINIMUM an on-air acknowledgement of their lies -- is a big deal.

Capitalism was able to make this about money, when it should never have been about money. This was about a massive, coordinated, deliberate conspiracy to lie to their entire audience, and to promote the lies and the liars that all made January 6 happen.

So fuck Fox News and all the fascists it empowers. And fuck Dominion and fuck all of its new multimillionaires. They had a chance to force Fox News to go on the record, to expose this whole fucking thing, and they just got paid, instead.

This company is involved in the most sacred part of our Democracy: the right to vote, and it just sold out all of America to the greatest threat to our right to vote in the nation’s history. Some things are bigger than money and more important than a single company. Dominion had the best chance to make a difference, and they chose to get paid.