Rise of the Defender: A Medieval Romance (de Lohr Dynasty Book 2) ($3.99 to Free) #Kindle

Rise of the Defender: A Medieval Romance (de Lohr Dynasty Book 2) ($3.99 to Free) #Kindle

Rise of the Defender: A Medieval Romance (de Lohr Dynasty Book 2) ($3.99 to Free) #Kindle

«  on: Today at 12:19:08 AM »

Author: Kathryn Le Veque.

Rating: 4.6 out of 5 stars (1,183 ratings)

Read the great Medieval Romance saga that spawned a series. Lose yourself in an enormous epic!

1192 A. D. – Sir Christopher de Lohr is Richard the Lion Heart’s champion, a man that the Muslims nicknamed “The Lion’s Claw”. Blond, battle-scarred and powerful, he is what all men fear. After the fall of Acre, Christopher makes a promise at the deathbed of a dying comrade to marry the man’s incorrigible but wealthy daughter.

Christopher returns home to marry the woman, but the only thing is interested in is her substantial dowry. He has no use for a wife and resents being forced into the marriage. The Lady Dustin Barrington doesn’t want a husband. Petite and beautiful, she is a goddess with the heart of a tomboy. When the enormous, seasoned warrior comes to Lioncross Abbey Castle to marry her, she savagely resists him. More than ever, Christopher regrets agreeing to marry the woman but as they are forced together in a contract marriage, something strange happens… somehow, someway, the animosity subsides and a gentle warmth takes its place.

More and more, they come to care for one another but neither of them will admit it. As the voyage of discovery begins, Christopher is distracted by a very important task entrusted to him by Richard. He has been sent back to England ahead of King Richard to assess the climate of the country and also to assess the activities of Richard’s brother, Prince John.

He leaves for London to put himself in the heart of the turmoil that is going on between Richard and John, and brings Dustin with him.

The moment they arrive in London, an entirely new and dangerous world opens up to them. Join Dustin and Christopher as they embark on the adventure of a lifetime. Evil princes, tournaments, politics, wars, and a threat to their relationship from deep inside Christopher’s inner circle invade their loving and passionate world.

When Christopher is reportedly killed in battle, Dustin must pick up the pieces of her shattered life and attempt to carry on.

But don’t count the Defender out just yet… can he make it to Dustin in time to prevent catastrophe?

We and our partners share information on your use of this website to help improve your experience. Do not sell my info: