Fraserburgh’s Greg Buchan was the Quickfire Questions victim on this week’s episode of Highland League Weekly – watch his grilling here.

Midfielder Greg, who has also played for Huntly in the Breedon Highland League, opened up on a series of light-hearted and serious questions, including ruling on which Broch team-mate, Ryan Cowie or Scott Barbour, is a better dressing room DJ…

Our subscribers-only football show, Highland League Weekly, is back bigger and better for the new season – with episodes going live every Monday night.

This week’s main Highland League Weekly Monday night show features highlights of the GPH Builders Merchants Highland League Cup final between Inverurie Locos and Banks o’ Dee, and the Breedon Highland League clash between Brora Rangers and Formartine United.

Ryan Cryle and Callum Law then analyse the rest of Saturday’s Breedon Highland League matches, while there’s also the usual mix of features.

At points throughout the campaign, we will again be producing Highland League Weekly EXTRA highlights shows from midweek matches, which will be released on Thursday nights.

In addition to this premium content – our Friday preview show, accessible to non-subscribers, is a brand new offering for 2022/23 season, with our panel looking ahead to each weekend’s fixtures and discussing other talking points.

Help yourself to never miss an episode of the award-winning Highland League Weekly – whether it’s the Friday preview show, main Monday show or EXTRA midweek highlights shows – by following our social media channels.

You can find us on Twitter, Youtube, Instagram and TikTok this season, while P&J Sport remains the hub for Highland League Weekly on Facebook.

We’ll be giving you plenty of chances to get involved in shows and join the debate using these platforms throughout the campaign.

You can also keep up to date with Highland League Weekly and all things Breedon Highland League by registering for our Highland League newsletters.

Every Tuesday morning during the season, a link to the latest episode of our main Monday night show – featuring the latest Highland League football highlights, features, and a panel discussion about the weekend’s matches– will drop into your email inbox, as well as all of the most recent match reports and reaction from across the Highland League. You’ll also receive a second weekly email alerting you to Friday’s preview show.