President Nicolás Maduro, who, on Wednesday, April 19, will celebrate his tenth anniversary at the head of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, wants to get the US sanctions against Venezuela lifted and to win the next presidential election. He has opted to strictly maintain the direction set by his charismatic predecessor Hugo Chavez, but his record is disastrous, to say the least. Since 2013, the economy has lost 80% of its value, and 7 million Venezuelans have gone into exile. The national oil company PDVSA, devoured by corruption, is but a shadow of its former self. And still, the head of state seems to be considering a new mandate.

"What we have done throughout these 10 years of struggle is extraordinary. Nothing and no one will stop us," he tweeted on March 11; Maduro is very active on social media, with more than 124,000 tweets. Two days later, he declared during a speech to an audience of supporters, "We do not know if the presidential election will be this year or next year. Let's keep it a secret."

For the opposition, this apparently throwaway remark is a cause for concern. In 2018, when the election was held six months before its scheduled date, it benefited Maduro, who was then re-elected. The opposition, Washington and their allies refused to recognize the results of the election and the legitimacy of Maduro's second term. Why would an early presidential election favor the incumbent again? "Bringing forward the date of the presidential election would prevent the opposition parties from holding primaries and organizing their electoral campaigns," said Jose Antonio Gil Yepes of Datanálisis, a Caracas-based polling firm.

The economy will also be a determining factor. The Venezuelan recovery that began in 2021 seems to have fizzled out. The IMF has just lowered its forecasts for 2023. Inflation could reach 400% over the year and growth will likely not exceed 5%, compared to 17% in 2022. "One point of growth less equals 1% less in the polls," said Gil Yepes. "Nicolás Maduro, whose approval rating is now 22% – compared to 10% three years ago and 27% in 2022 – knows he is losing momentum. He is in a hurry to act and get re-elected." The highly publicized anti-corruption operation conducted at PDVSA in recent weeks is most likely driven by political considerations. Attorney General Tarek W. Saab has confirmed the arrest of 58 people, both senior officials and contractors.

Two months ago, the Unitary Platform, an alliance of the main opposition parties, announced that it would hold its primaries on October 22. The question of whether they will ask the National Electoral Council (CNE) for assistance in organizing the vote is still unresolved. None of the opposition leaders is clearly ahead in the polls. Opposition leader and former deputy Tamara Adrian, 69, the first trans woman in Latin America to hold a seat in parliament, announced on Thursday that she would stand as a candidate in the primaries.

You have 46.83% of this article left to read. The rest is for subscribers only.