Lizzo has been praised for her strong reaction to Candace Owens’ fatphobic rant to her.

Candace Owens, the controversial podcast host, is at it again. She body-shamed the 34-year-old ‘About Damn Time’ singer this week after she quoted wellness expert Gina Bontempo’s remark.

Bontempo captioned a naked photo of Lizzo sipping tea, “Obesity is on the rise, and yet celebrities and the media tell women that being obese is normal and ‘healthy.'” They never attempt this with males. Only women have the insecurity to fall for it.”

It didn’t take long for the 33-year-old conservative pundit to weigh in on the Grammy-winning singer’s physique.

Take a look at Owens’ posts below:

Only women could be emotionally manipulated into supporting their own eradication via support for “trans men”.

Only women could be fooled into supporting a death cult of “fat acceptance”.

Today’s cultural battles prove that women are more irrational and emotional than men. https://t.co/1hi8RZZJbC

If you peep comments on any of Lizzo’s  “fat acceptance” photos, you will undoubtedly find a score of batshit insane women telling her that she looks beautiful.

Men do not lie to other men in this way. They do not pretend that clinical obesity is beauty. https://t.co/4b10SBVbDc

In her message, she managed to be anti-trans, sexist, and anti-fat as she wrote: “Only women could be emotionally manipulated into supporting their own eradication via support for ‘trans men’.

“Only women could be fooled into supporting a death cult of ‘fat acceptance’,” she went on. “Today’s cultural battles prove that women are more irrational and emotional than men.”

She continued her rant about Lizzo in a second tweet that read: “If you peep comments on any of Lizzo’s ‘fat acceptance’ photos, you will undoubtedly find a score of batshit insane women telling her that she looks beautiful. Men do not lie to other men in this way. They do not pretend that clinical obesity is beauty.”

After seeing her posts, many users on the social media platform quickly rushed to the singer’s defense as one person penned: “@lizzo is more talented, more loved, and infinitely funnier than you are. Mind your glass house before casting stones.”

.@lizzo is more talented, more loved, and infinitely funnier than you are. Mind your glass house before casting stones. https://t.co/vBM7mmRMYj

Lizzo be out here minding her business and miserable lowlifes on the internet always got some kind of miserable opinion https://t.co/QKqtuUgqdK

Hate and negativity is on the rise too. You’re leading the charge.

The ‘Truth Hurts’ singer has also responded to Owens’ terrible statements by posting a beautiful video on Instagram.

She donned a bathrobe in the short video and said: “I just finished showering and doing my little routine, and you know what I realized? I am f***ing gorgeous. I am the beauty standard. Catch up b***h.”

We respect Lizzo for not being silent when someone makes a remark about her body.