— Recommendations are independently chosen by Reviewed's editors. Purchases made through the links below may earn us and our publishing partners a commission.

If you're an avid gardener, like I am, you know the value of having shoes that you can easily slip on and off, but that can stand up to the mud and debris in the garden.

Enter Sloggers, the best pair of gardening clogs I've ever tried.

My Sloggers have seen me through the landscaping of three different gardens, and other than being slightly faded from the sun, they're as great as they were when I bought them 12 years ago.

►Ends tonight! Join Sam's Club for $10 to score bulk savings on groceries, gas, toilet paper and more

Comfort is key when you're spending long days in the garden, and Sloggers deliver. The cushioned insole offers plenty of support, and you can even order replacement insoles when (or if) yours wear out.

Cleaning them is a breeze, too, thanks to the removable insoles and the fact that you can just hose off the outside. When mine get really filthy I soak them in a shallow bucket of water to loosen up mud and debris from the non-slip soles, and then let everything dry in the sun.

Confession: I've even accidentally left my Sloggers out in torrential rain storms and they've held up beautifully after being given time to dry.

Make smart choices without hours of googling. Subscribe to The Checklist newsletter for expert product advice and recommendations.

►Tory Burch sale: Save up to 50% on sandals, swimsuits, dresses and more for summer 2023

There's a reason that Sloggers have been the trusted garden shoe company since 1948; the company's products can withstand hard use from even the most avid gardener.

The comfy clogs come in a variety of colors and patterns to compliment any gardening get-up, and—best of all—they are easy to slip off when you need to run inside to attend to children or go to the bathroom.

The product experts at Reviewed have all your shopping needs covered. Follow Reviewed on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, TikTok or Flipboard for the latest deals, product reviews and more.

Prices were accurate at the time this article was published but may change over time.