Minor Decliner is proud to announce that we have become a premium ID scanning solutions provider in the USA.

Presently, we efficiently serve multiple industries, including Alcohol Retailers, Cannabis & CBD Sellers, Convenience Stores, Gaming & Gambling, Pharma, Restaurants & Bars, Gun Stores, Vape Stores, Nightclubs, Passport scanning, Car rentals, and more.

In short, we have a tailored ID detection solution for age verification for many use cases.

What Sets MinorDecliner ID Scanners Apart from the Competition?

MinorDecliner ID Scanners stand out from the competition due to their advanced technology and superior accuracy. Our scanners use powerful and advanced algorithms to quickly and accurately verify IDs, preventing minors from accessing age-restricted products or services.

We have been serving customers from different industries and have proudly met their expectations and satisfaction. Prime reasons that make us unique are:

*   Our ID scanners read the 2D PDF417 Barcode in all 50 states.

*  Mobile ID and document scanning remove human error from your process and improve the quality of your data.

*  Our patent-pending Intelligent Fake Detection™ / FakDetector™ System uses behaviour-based algorithms to check for fraudulent IDs.

*  Access control systems to assure over 21 access to areas where over 21 is required by law.

*  Systems for customers to self-scan, and technology to enable self-checkouts.

*  Implementation and integration of advanced technology for age verification as the National Association of Convivence Stores TRUAGE™ protocol, the YOTI™ age estimation protocol, and the Intellicheck™ Fake ID detection protocols.

Apart from the above, our ID scanners are user-friendly, portable, and ideal for a wide range of industries. With MinorDecliner ID Scanners, you can be confident you are providing the best age verification and ID scanning technology available.

Creating a Secure World: The MinorDecliner Vision for the Future

We aim to eliminate sales and access of age-restricted products to minors to protect businesses. We address a critical need to provide an easy-to-use age verification solution to prevent sales of age-restricted products to minors, and we protect retailers from ever-increasing penalties and enforcement.

MinorDecliner LLC is the authorized and genuine provider of age-verification ID scanners. Ronald Tobb, the Founder of Minor Decliner, is a problem solver and discovered the issue of underage sales and serving age-restricted products.

He saw this problem after his daughter served as an underage investigator for a local police department. Her job was to attempt to purchase cigarettes or alcohol with her authentic under-18 ID.

She was shocked that people sold her 20-30% of the time because they could not do the math and figure out how old she was. Ron took this as a major pitfall in serving age-restricted items and founded the company in January 2016.

For more information about state of the art ID detectors, call tel:888-310-4001 [888-310-4001] or schedule a meeting.