One of the keys to growing any business, local or online, is getting deals made. Neil Napierhas created VidProposals 2.0, which he calls “the perfect system for getting signed contracts online in a way that’s never been done before.”

People want digital services more than ever because it’s so effective to go online and outsource online marketing tasks. So Neil has put together VidProposals 2.0 to help you step up your deal closing success rate so you can start your marketing consulting or outsourcing right away while avoiding all the confusing and frustrating work that keeps so many marketers out of the lucrative local and online services world.

It lets you create, send, sign, and profit with video proposals like never before. And you can get this dome from one dashboard.

It opens tomorrow at 11 AM ET/NY, and to celebrate the grand opening, Napier has an early-bird opportunity for you.

At 10 AM tomorrow, he will be hosting a free webinar so you can learn all about this expert suite of tools that makes it easy for beginners and agency pros alike to start building a successful consulting or outsourcing business.

If your internet business hasn’t prospered as you hoped, maybe your problem is that you haven’t been listening to the right mentors. You need an experienced coach to guide you. Someone who has done exactly what you want to do. Napier has gone from basically nothing to a thriving seven-figure online business in just a few years.

He has done so well because he was always looking to catch future trends while they are still in their infancy. It looks like the next trend in the B-to-B space is video proposals.

It may not sound exciting, but you would be excited if you start getting notifications of legally binding e-signed contracts in your email. Each signed contract means money in the bank for you and another step towards true freedom online (and, if you haven’t already) saying goodbye to the 9-5 grind.

On tomorrow’s webinar, he will show you this whole new paradigm of video proposals and how VidProposals 2.0 will help you take advantage of them. Do join him as he gives you a sneak peek into this remarkable new software tomorrow at 10 AM ET/NY.

It is a full-blown video proposal system (with a LeadGen feature too) that can make you the first agency to connect with your prospects like no one else has before.

Register here now, if you want to entered to:[Insert Your Link]

On the call, Napier will show you:

How to leverage VidProposals’s Next-Gen Technology to create, send, sign & profit from professional and convenient video proposals that you can create in just minutes.

Don’t miss this call if you want to break free and live the life you were meant to live.

Register here before all the seats are booked: VidProposals 2.0 Training.

There’s not going to be a replay so sign up and be there.

It could be the first step you take to true independence in your life.

Mark April 20th (Tuesday), 10 AM ET/NY on your calendar.

Remember, when you sign up, you also get a chance to win a free copy of VidProposals 2.0. Neil’s giving away a bunch of them.