Google Maps viewers were convinced they have spotted a crime when a Street View driver appeared to have crashed into a biker.

The bizarre incident was shared in a Reddit post about "idiots in cars" – and one Google user noticed a car crash in an off-grid village in Youpe Amadi, Senegal.

Based on the information on the site, the still images were taken in May, 2022, when a Street View car drove passed a mosque on the N1 highway.

READ MORE: Google Maps ditches feature honouring Queen Elizabeth – and hasn't given Charles one

"Motorcyclist makes a U-turn in front of the Google Street View car and causes a crash," the caption read.

A man in a blue bike was heading towards the Google vehicle on the opposite lane but he suddenly changed his course and did a U-turn right in front of the car.

As he cut across to the another lane, the Google driver appears to accidentally drive into him.

The man was sent flying through the air after crashing to the car hood and falling to the side of the road.

Viewers were left in disbelief, with one saying: "So we just witnessed Google killing a man and we aren't even batting an eye?"

"It's kind of funny how it got documented on Google Street View," a second wrote.

Others checked the scenes further down the road and found a man driving a moped with a goat in his lap.

Some were puzzled how the moment was shared on Google Maps.

"They are not uploading in real time, are they? I'd think he'd go back and drive past the area without the crash for there to be a clean version to upload?" one asked.

"Or at least blurred this out? I really know nothing about the operations of the Street View team."

Another joked: "Maybe the driver wants to become famous so he makes an illegal turn to let Google car crash on him."

To stay up to date with all the latest news, make sure you sign up to one of our newsletters here.

* Weirdest ever Google Maps finds – from UFOs and Big Foot to creepy 'murder scenes'

* Man whacked around the head with 'concrete paving slab' found bleeding on road