Rebecca Foster, 32, and Kieran Naylor, 33, were described as 'the perfect couple'

Something went wrong, please try again later.

It's more important than ever to stay informed - Get the free CheshireLive newsletter direct to your inbox

Rebecca Foster, 32, and Kieran Naylor, 33, were described as 'the perfect couple'

Something went wrong, please try again later.

It's more important than ever to stay informed - Get the free CheshireLive newsletter direct to your inbox

A house fire in Cheshire that claimed the lives of a "perfect couple" started accidentally in the living room, it has been confirmed.

Rebecca Foster, 32, and Kieran Naylor, 33, sustained serious injuries as a result of the blaze at their home on Delph Lane, Daresbury, in the early hours of December 12 last year. Sadly, Rebecca died in hospital the following day.

Two weeks later, on Boxing Day, her fiancé Kieran also tragically lost his life as a result of the injuries he sustained in the fire.

READ MORE:Two drivers urged to come forward over crash that killed teenager

Cheshire Fire and Rescue Service have now confirmed that the cause was accidental, although investigations will continue to find out exactly what sparked the blaze.

Lee Shears, Assistant Chief Fire Officer for Cheshire Fire and Rescue Service, said: “This has been a particularly difficult and distressing incident for everyone involved and our thoughts remain with Rebecca and Kieran’s families.

"The instability of the house caused by the fire damage has made it extremely challenging to determine the cause of the fire.

"However, we have concluded that it started accidentally in the ground floor living room and we are still undertaking further investigations to determine the exact cause."

Rebecca’s family paid tribute to her following her death, stating: “Rebecca was a loving and caring daughter and our lives have been absolutely torn apart by her death.

"She and Kieran made the perfect couple, and the pair were planning to spend the rest of their lives together, but sadly they will never be able to fulfil their dreams.

In a tribute to Kieran, his family said: “Words cannot express how completely heartbroken and devastated we are to have lost Kieran. Our lives will never be the same.

"Kieran really was the best son, brother and uncle that anyone could have wished for and he will be sorely missed by everyone who had the pleasure to have known him. Kieran and Rebecca are now reunited forever and they will always be in our hearts."

NEWSLETTER: Sign up for CheshireLive email direct to your inbox here