We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or

tap here to see other videos from our team.     Bruce and Grey county receive over $4.8 million in homelessness support funding       This additional funding includes 1,536,900 (increased by $599,400) for Bruce County and $3,282,800 (increased by $1,237,200) for Grey County.  “This investment will make a real impact to support housing providers that help vulnerable people either at risk or already experiencing homelessness in our community,” said Bruce-Grey-Owen Sound MPP Rick Byers in a media release.  The additional annual funding, announced in the 2023 provincial budget, represents a 40 per cent increase in funding by the government to support the most vulnerable by providing supportive housing and homelessness prevention services.  The majority of the funding province-wide will be allocated to the Homelessness Prevention Program (HPP), which gives Ontario’s 47 service managers greater flexibility to allocate funding and make better use of existing resources to focus on delivering support.

The remaining province-wide funding each year will be invested in the Indigenous Supportive Housing Program (ISHP), which provides Indigenous-led, culturally appropriate long-term housing solutions and support services to Indigenous people experiencing or at risk of homelessness.  “We know Ontario’s housing supply crisis impacts all Ontarians, no matter their background or budget,” said Steve Clark, minister of municipal affairs and housing. “That’s why we’ve increased funding for our homelessness prevention programs by more than 40 per cent. These measures complement the bold and transformational change we are implementing to tackle the housing supply crisis and get more homes built faster across Ontario.”

“During a time of economic challenges and change, our government is supporting those who have fallen on hard times and are experiencing, or are at risk of experiencing, homelessness,” said Peter Bethlenfalvy, minister of finance. “Ontario’s 2023 Budget: Building a Strong Ontario is the right plan to support those who need it the most today while laying a strong fiscal foundation for future generations.”  “The Homelessness Prevention Program and Indigenous Supporting Housing Program are important steps that our government is taking to support those experiencing or at risk of homelessness,” said Lisa Thompson, MPP for Huron-Bruce. “Through this investment, the most vulnerable, as well as our local communities, can have confidence in the access to needed supports.”

The increased funding is a result of a revised funding model that better reflects the current needs of individuals who are facing homelessness across Ontario, the release said. Funding dollars are being increased to address increased needs, particularly during a time of rising inflation, and to help ensure that no service manager receives a decrease in funding compared to 2022-23 as a result of the transition to the new model.  “Through strong partnerships and quality investment, Bruce County is able to build a strong housing response system for vulnerable residents,” said Bruce County Warden Chris Peabody. “Anyone that is homeless, or at risk of homelessness, is encouraged to contact local 211 services to secure a safe place to stay for the night, and learn about other services that may support residents in maintaining their current housing in Bruce County.”

“Everyone deserves a safe and affordable place to call home,” said Grey County Warden Brian Milne. “Housing and homelessness prevention are a priority for Grey County, and this additional support for municipalities will help us work together to increase the supply of housing and tackle the homelessness crisis in Ontario.”  A plan to allocate the increased funds to support Grey County community members experiencing a lack of housing or risk of homelessness will be presented to Grey County Community Services Committee on April 25, said Josh Gibson, manager of housing programs. Gibson said during the winter months, from Oct. 1, 2022, to March 31, 2023, Grey County’s Short Term Shelter Program provided over 8,000 nights of emergency accommodations for individuals or families experiencing homelessness.  The changes also address the recommendation in the Auditor General’s 2021 value-for-money audit on homelessness, which called for a better funding model for homelessness programs that would target areas where funding is most needed, the release said.

This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.