The two teams played each other extremely close the whole game, aside from a brief  10-point lead by the Warriors, and the scouting on both sides was highly prevalent. The Warriors tried to take away the dribble hand offs from Sabonis and close out on the Kings threes. The Kings tried to be as physical as they could and throw everything at Steph Curry. In the end, the Kings came out on top, and that beautiful beam lit up the Sacramento skies while Kings fans poured out their emotions for the whole world to see.

Brown liked what he saw in the first game from his team in terms of physicality and pace. He said the pace was good in the second half. The Warriors did a good job of disrupting the outside shooting of the Kings in the first half. So, Brown will likely push his team to play with more pace throughout the whole game in Game 2.

He will look to continue to get his players to spray the ball out to open guys on the perimeter. Watch for the Warriors to continue to try to limit this and disrupt the Kings pace.

Kevon Looney is one of the better offensive rebounders in the league, and Andrew Wiggins and Donte DiVincenzo are both good in that category as well. The Kings held the three of them to 5 total offensive rebounds. Meanwhile, five of the Kings players who saw minutes had at least 2 offensive rebounds, including 5 for Sabonis and 4 for Harrison Barnes.

So, Kerr will likely be pushing his team on this for Game 2, and the Kings will need to keep the pressure on here. Sunday, Kerr said boxing out and being physical on the glass will be on the biggest adjustments he is going to try to make.

This was sort of expected from a rookie. The nerves and the Warriors plan of attack took Murray out of his game. He only made 1 of his 5 total field goal attempts, though he was a +1 overall. Sabonis was a little more surprising. The Warriors were physical with him and dared him to shoot, leaving him wide open at the elbow and from three – and you could visibly see Sabonis questioning himself.

Malik Monk, Trey Lyles and Alex Len played key roles off the bench. Using Len to stop the Warriors from attacking the rim in the first half was fun to watch, especially when it was capped off by that emphatic block. And despite the Warriors being able to keep Sabonis, Murray and Kevin Huerter in check scoring wise, the Warriors had no answer for the bench. Monk and Lyles combined for 48 points. Kerr said Monk’s ability to get to the free throw line 14 times [and make all of them] was a huge factor.

And Lyles got free in transition: “That can’t happen. You can’t give a shooter a wide-open look with a breakdown,” Kerr said.

The Kings bench will need to be prepared to carry some of the scoring load ongoing if the Warriors continue to be effective in slowing down Sabonis. You would expect Huerter and Murray to have better shooting nights though.

The Toronto Raptors implemented the rarely used box-and-1 defensive strategy against Curry in the 2019 NBA Finals. (Brown, of course, was an assistant coach for the Warriors at this time.) Box-and-1 is basically combining man-to-man and zone concepts. One defender guards the player with man-to-man pressure while the other four defenders set up zone coverage in the form of a “box.” This combination is intended to help neutralize the other team's best scoring and playmaking threat – in this case, Curry.

“They did a great job. We don’t work on it a ton. It was part of our game plan as coaches going into this series,” he said. “We’re not going to [work on it] because the beauty of us going to a box-and-1 is we don’t really know what we’re doing which that may confuse the other team, so let’s just let them play.” Alex Len asked Brown to go over the box-and-1 because he didn’t know what he was doing. Brown told him, “That’s a good thing, don’t worry about it. [Laughs]”

Fox had a great game defensively on Curry, and Mitchell came in and pestered him. Then, they threw this chaotic box-and-1 out there. It will be interesting to see how and if this strategy is used throughout the rest of the series, and if it continues to disrupt what the Warriors are trying to do. Regardless, more defense from Fox like we saw will be a major factor.