TODAY's Jenna Bush Hager has shown off her curves in a tight navy dress in a photo while celebrating second cousin Wendy Wear Stapleton's birthday.

Jenna took to her Instagram Stories to celebrate Wendy's big day with a series of photos.

She began the set with a photo of herself with Wendy, captioned "Happiest birthday to this queen @wendywearstapleton."

Her next photo was of Wendy with her child, captioned "You take care of my babes like their [sic] your own."

The next snap found Jenna in a tight blue dress, showing off her figure.

The dress appeared to be satin, and Jenna paired it with three strands of tasteful jewelry.

It was a thigh-skimming number that accentuated Jenna's fit figure and faded into the blue lighting at the musical show the family had attended.

She wore her brown hair down in loose curls around her face as she posed with Wendy and Jenna's husband Henry Chase Hager.

Jenna added several additional snaps to the collection and posed in several of them alongside Wendy.

Meanwhile, Jenna shocked Today Show fans by calling the Kardashians "fake" and "phony."

The host participated in a segment on live TV that changed people's appearances.

On Friday's show, Jenna and her Today co-host Hoda Kotb welcomed Michelle, a pop culture expert, on the show.

They talked about the trends currently happening in pop culture.

After going through "short kings" of Hollywood and voice notes, they brought up the Yassification filter.

This app turns anyone into a glammed-up woman, to make them look almost like a cartoon character.

They went through some celebrities with the filter on to see if they could figure out who they were.

At the end, Michelle asked the Today hosts how they felt about the Yassification filter.

With a hand on her chin, Hoda just kept repeating "No, no" and shaking her head.

"So fake and phony. Are we turning everyone into a Kardashian?" Jenna asked.

"Is that the point?"

One fan commented on the video, which was reposted to Twitter.

"Lmao Jenna 'it looks SO FAKE- are we turning everybody into a Kardashian?!'" they asked with a cringe-face emoji.

"Why are humans so hateful and jealous of other humans?" asked another.

This is not the first time Jenna has slammed the Kardashians on live TV.

In March, the host blasted Kourtney Kardashian for controversial photos she shared of the inside of her bathroom.

The news anchor didn't hold back her thoughts during that Wednesday's broadcast of Hoda and Jenna.

During the show, Jenna, 41, and Hoda, 58, discussed a questionable snap that Kourtney, 42, posted to Instagram earlier in the week.

The pics captured a supposed romantic scene created in the reality star's bathroom, including champagne bottles and various prepared meals plated across the tile floor.

One meal looked to be half eaten while perched on top of the toilet seat cover.

The others surrounded the bathtub, filled with pink, sudsy water, seemingly setting the mood for a date night.

Though it was just one photo of a slideshow of random snaps in the post, it caught viewers' eye the most - especially the Today hosts.

Jenna first raised alarm about the photo, admitting she wasn't a fan of Kourtney's setup.

"I don't like the idea of bringing food into the bathtub or anywhere close to that area," the TV personality shared.

"Guess what happens in there? The same thing that happens in my bathroom that's a lot smaller."

Hoda hysterically laughed at her co-host's confession while letting her continue.

"There are certain rooms called dining rooms, [and] kitchens, and they were named that way because the bathroom, one or two activities are supposed to happen there.

"Eating is not one of them," Jenna ranted while wagging her finger.

"But having a nice drink in the tub is okay," Hoda countered, but Jenna wasn't fond of that idea either.

"I don't really do that either. I'll have some tea, maybe. Yes. But eating food? Eating a burger?" Jenna clapped back.

Hoda then admitted that although she tried to defend Kourtney's bathroom choices, she wasn't on board.

"Look, I'm trying to play devil's advocate here, but I would never eat a burger in the bathroom," she said.

"Do you ever eat anything in the bathroom?" Jenna asked her co-host, who paused to ponder her response.

"You definitely have," Jenna guessed as the pair erupted in laughter.