We have been told about an urgent situation about three babies who are currently at a feedlot. No one has been interested in any of these three babies, and without your help, they have two options: being shipped to slaughter, or being euthanized. Legally babies as young as 6 months old can be shipped to slaughter! It is a horrific end, and another rescue group has offered to just euthanize the babies rather than have them be shipped to the slaughterhouse. We are hoping instead that there are people out there who can help us with a miracle of saving their lives.

These three babies are 6 to 11 months old. They were from a Navajo Reservation, so they are not trained at all. When they arrived at the feedlot, they were taken from their mothers and their mothers were immediately shipped to slaughter before a rescue could step in to help. A few other babies that came in with them have found homes, but no one has stepped up to help these three babies. There is a black colt, a chestnut colt, and a bay filly. They are in immediate danger!

What you can do to help:

If you are interested in adopting any of these babies directly, you can email Auction Horses Rescue, and they will send you a short adoption form (it takes about 10-15 minutes to fill out). The bail amount is $400. Their email is: AHRadoptions@gmail.com. If you are a 501(c)(3) rescue, there is NO bail fee.

If you are able to help foster any of these three for a month, please email us directly: elizabeth@hanaeleh.org. They must be quarantined as they have been on a feedlot, and we don’t have a safe place for them at our ranch.

If you are interested in adopting these babies from Hanaeleh, there is no adoption fee, but you will need to sign an adoption contract giving Hanaeleh first right-of-refusal (you will not be able to sell them).  Please note that these are COMPLETELY untrained babies, so you will need to have some experience with babies/untrained horses! Please fill out our horse inquiry form and we will get back to you ASAP!

PLEASE SHARE! We need to know placement by Monday/Tuesday so we can arrange transport. We unfortunately have no more time as we were not aware about this situation until today.

Can you please help us save these three lives? We know it’s a lot to ask, but certainly they deserve better than death at the hands of humans at only 6 months old.