Three law enforcement officials have been suspended from the Oklahoma Sheriffs' Association (OSA), after audio recordings allegedly revealed them discussing killing journalists and lamenting that they could no longer lynch black people.

McCurtain County Sheriff Kevin Clardy, Sheriff's Captain Alicia Manning, and Jail Administrator Larry Hendrix were suspended from the group following a unanimous vote at an emergency meeting on Tuesday, OSA confirmed in a statement.

OSA is a membership organization, not a regulatory body, and the three officials, along with District 2 Commissioner Mark Jennings, remain in their posts despite Oklahoma Governor Kevin Stitt's call for them to resign.

In a statement on Monday, the McCurtain County Sheriff's Office claimed that the vile audio recordings were 'illegally obtained' and had 'yet to be duly authenticated or validated.'

'Our preliminary information indicates that the media released audio recording has, in fact, been altered,' the sheriff's office claimed.

In the tapes released by the McCurtain Gazette-News, Manning and Jennings appear to be recorded at a March 6 county commissioners meeting as they discuss killing reporters Bruce and Chris Willingham, whose family has run the paper for decades.

According to the paper, Jennings tells Clardy and Manning 'I know where two deep holes are dug if you ever need them,' and the sheriff responded, 'I've got an excavator.'

The Commissioner also allegedly says he knows 'two or three hit men' in Louisiana, adding 'they're very quiet guys' and would 'cut no f****** mercy'.

As Manning prepared to travel near to the newspaper's office, she reportedly said that she was 'worried about what I might do to him', referring to Chris Willingham.

She reportedly goes on to say how her father would have 'whipped his ass, would have wiped him and used him for toilet paper,' and 'started to go down there and just kill him'.

In another vile exchange, the group discusses people applying for the role of Sheriff and how they thought the job had changed.

According to the newspaper, Jennings says: 'They don't have a goddamn clue what they're getting into. Not this day and age.

'I'm gonna tell you something. If it was back in the day, when that Alan Marshton would take a damn black guy and whoop their ass and throw him in the cell? I'd run for f****** sheriff.'

He went on: 'Take them down to Mud Creek and hang them up with a d**n rope. But you can't do that anymore. They got more rights than we got.'

Further audio appears to show the Sheriff and Hendrix comparing the victim of a house fire to meat on a 'barbecue'.

Governor Stitt, a Republican, said on Sunday that he is seeking the resignations of Clardy, Manning and Jennings, as well as Hendrix.

'I am both appalled and disheartened to hear of the horrid comments made by officials in McCurtain County,' Stitt said in a statement.

'There is simply no place for such hateful rhetoric in the state of Oklahoma, especially by those that serve to represent the community through their respective office.'

Republican governor Stitt said he has ordered the Oklahoma State Bureau of Investigation to 'initiate an investigation to determine whether any illegal conduct has occurred.'

Bruce Willingham, the local newspaper publisher, said he has also turned over his audio recordings to the FBI and the Oklahoma Attorney General's Office and added he has had several conversations with federal investigators.

A spokeswoman for the FBI's office in Oklahoma City said the agency's policy is not to confirm or deny any ongoing investigation.

Phil Bacharach, a spokesman for Attorney General Gentner Drummond, said the agency had received an audio recording and is investigating the incident, but declined to comment further.

The authenticity of the recording could not be immediately verified.

In a statement, the McCurtain County Sheriff's Office tried to cast doubt on the recordings, while also claiming they were illegally obtained in violation of state laws that ban secret recordings.

'There is and has been an ongoing investigation into multiple, significant violation of the Oklahoma Security of Communications Act, Title 13, Chapters 176.3 and 176.4 which states that it is illegal to secretly record a conversation in which you are not involved and do not have the consent of at least one of the involved parties,' the statement said.

'There is a significant number of victims of this criminal activity and it has taken significant effort and time to identify them and corroborate evidence.'

The sheriff's office added: 'This is a very complex situation and one we regret having to address.'

On Monday, more than 100 people gathered outside the McCurtain County Courthouse in Idabel, with many of them calling for the sheriff and other county officials to resign over the scandal.

Bruce Willingham, the longtime publisher of the McCurtain Gazette-News, said the recording was made March 6 when he left a voice-activated recorder inside the room after a county commissioner's meeting

He said he did so because he suspected the group was continuing to conduct county business after the meeting had ended in violation of the state's Open Meeting Act.

'I talked on two different occasions to our attorneys to make sure I wasn't doing anything illegal,' Bruce Willingham said.

Bruce Willingham said he believes the local officials were upset about 'stories we've run that cast the sheriff's office in an unfavorable light,' including the death of Bobby Barrick, a Broken Bow, Oklahoma, man who died at a hospital in March 2022 after McCurtain County deputies shot him with a stun gun.

The newspaper has filed a lawsuit against the sheriff's office seeking body camera footage and other records connected to Barrick's death.

Joey Senat, a journalism professor at Oklahoma State University, said he was shocked to hear the comments made in the recording, especially in light of recent killings of journalists in the US.

Last year, a Las Vegas-area elected official was accused of fatally stabbing a veteran newspaper reporter who had been investigating him.

'The whole conversation seemed deplorable,' Senat said. 'I was shocked as I assume most people were not only about the comments about journalists, but the racist comments regarding African Americans. Joking doesn´t excuse that.'

Senat said under Oklahoma law, the recording would be legal if it were obtained in a place where the officials being recorded did not have a reasonable expectation of privacy.

McCurtain County is in far southeast Oklahoma, bordering both Arkansas and Texas, in a part of the state often referred to as 'Little Dixie,' because of the influence in the area from white Southerners who migrated there after the Civil War.

With its rolling, forested hills in the foothills of the Ouachita Mountains, the area has become a tourism hotbed attracting a steady stream of visitors from the Dallas-Fort Worth area.

State Rep. Eddy Dempsey, a Republican who represents the area in the Oklahoma House, said the recorded comments don't reflect the values of his constituents and echoed Stitt's call for the four people involved in the conversation to resign.

'All my life, we've always said we don't get enough recognition in southeast Oklahoma,' Dempsey said. 'But we don't need this kind of recognition.'

The McCurtain County Sheriff's Office issued the following statement on Monday night: 'The last 72 hours have been amongst the most difficult and disruptive in recent memory. This is a very complex situation and one we regret having to address.'There is and has been an ongoing investigation into multiple, significant violation of the Oklahoma Security of Communications Act, Title 13, Chapters 176.3 and 176.4 which states that it is illegal to secretly record a conversation in which you are not involved and do not have the consent of at least one of the involved parties. There is a significant number of victims of this criminal activity and it has taken significant effort and time to identify them and corroborate evidence.'Many of these recordings, like the one published by media outlets on Friday, have yet to be duly authenticated or validated. Our preliminary information indicates that the media released audio recording has, in fact, been altered. The motivation for doing so remains unclear at this point. That matter is actively being investigated.'In addition to being illegally obtained, the audio does not match the “transcription” of that audio, and is not precisely consistent with what has been put into print.'Multiple agencies are assisting in this ongoing investigation.'As a result of the press release that went out on Friday, a large number of threats of violence including death threats have been made against county employees and officials, their families and friends.'There will be continued press releases from this agency as the investigation comes to a close and findings are forwarded to the appropriate authorities for felony charges to be filed on those involved.'