Takeover target The Hut Group crashed to a record loss on yet another dismal day for the company.

Less than 24 hours after it revealed it has been approached by US private equity group Apollo, the online retailer said annual losses almost trebled to £550million last year.

The business, which owns websites LookFantastic and Myprotein, also warned revenues were sharply lower in the first three months of this year.

Shares in THG – as the group is now known – fell 19.8 per cent, or 19p, to 76.76p, having jumped 45 per cent the previous day on news of Apollo’s interest.

Founder and chief executive Matt Moulding admitted profits were ‘not where we planned at the start of the year’.

But he insisted ‘there is no doubt that 2022 was our best performance to date’, adding: ‘Given all of what’s been going on in the world, I’m super pleased with where we are.’

The share price plunge was just the latest car crash for Moulding, who has made no secret of his disillusionment with his experience on the London stock market, saying it has ‘just sucked from start to finish’.

The shares listed at 500p in September 2020, giving THG a value of £5.4billion, and peaked close to 800p in early 2021.

But they were changing hands for little more than 30p last year, and despite making gains since then the company is now worth around £997million.

The collapse in the share price has caught the eye of Apollo, making THG just the latest in a long line of British companies to be targeted by private equity predators looking for a bargain. J

Julie Palmer, a partner at corporate recovery specialist Begbies Traynor, said a firm offer from Apollo ‘could be a relief’ for Moulding as well as for THG’s ‘long-suffering shareholders’.

Victoria Scholar, head of investment at investment platform Interactive Investor, said: ‘THG shareholders have had an extremely tough time. Investors are hoping that a buyout could put an end to this bad chapter.’

Highlighting ‘runaway inflation’, Moulding blamed the annual loss on higher prices for key ingredients, such as whey protein which is used a lot in its sports nutrition business, as well as one-off costs for redundancies at now closed divisions.

At the same time, THG said it prioritised keeping price hikes at bay for customers, eating into its profit margins.

Sales were up just 2.7 per centto £2.2billion last year and fell 8.6 per cent in the first three months of this year.

Moulding said: ‘2022 was unquestionably the most challenging global environment we’ve seen since founding THG nearly 20 years ago.

‘An extraordinary backdrop of runaway inflation, rapidly rising interest rates, and major geopolitical events created significant macroeconomic and consumer uncertainty.

'I’m incredibly proud of how THG and the team responded to these challenges.

‘For me, there is no doubt that 2022 was our best performance to date, even given the reduction in profitability year-on-year.’

And in a boost for investors, he confirmed he would give up his so-called ‘golden share’ rights in September, allowing the firm to move from its standard listing to the ranks of the FTSE 250.