The spotlight is being turned back on to the Kawarthas, courtesy of a new season of "Scott’s Vacation House Rules."

The popular HGTV program kicks off its fourth season on April 23 with the first of seven episodes; the second set will air this fall.

Show host Scott McGillivray returns to the Kawarthas — this time to help a friend rejuvenate his own Coboconk area property — and also tackle projects in Buckhorn and Apsley.

The transformations are incredible, supported once again by interior designer Debra Salmoni.

“It’s wonderful to watch Scott and the crew navigate toward creating the best ending for everyone,” said Salmoni.

For the last 12 years, Salmoni has embraced the opportunity to create spaces that her clients love, taking space from dated, non-functional and drab, to functional, beautiful and unique.

When it comes to cottages, Salmoni has particularly enjoyed flexing her skills during the last few years, much in part due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

“There really has been an evolution when it comes to cottaging in recent years,” said Salmoni, who grew up enjoying the great outdoors at family cottages in Thornbury and Haliburton and continues to do so at her own on the French River.

“Domestic travel is really popular now, especially in the last two years … Not to mention, years ago, people only had a little bit of vacation time, so having to ‘rough it’ for a few days wasn’t too difficult. Now, people have six and eight weeks of vacation time and taking advantage of the ability to work remotely. So they want to have more of those home comforts.”

Many people are also opting to leave the big city behind for the quieter rural life, either retiring to the cottage or transforming it into a four-season residence.

“And I think people are also really enjoying a second stream of income,” added Salmoni.

Regardless the reason, when it comes to design, Salmoni usually turns to the owner and Mother Nature for inspiration.

For example, during the new season’s opening episode — the Cliffside Cabin — Salmoni drew heavily from the area’s geography for her design theme.

“Most of inspiration comes from my surroundings; vistas and terrains, forests and sometimes even the smells and sounds,” said Salmoni. “And, of course, every project has its own set of challenges. Sometimes you need to depend on the skills and the expertise of others as well as your own ability to trouble shoot.”

Weather is one of the biggest challenges, she said, as it’s “the one thing you have absolutely no control over.” There’s also a budget to watch.

However, Salmoni has also run into such things as no running water.

“But that’s all a part of living in cottage country. You just have to learn how to figure it out.”