If Leeds United learned anything from Monday night’s 6-1 obliteration at the hands of Liverpool, it was the value of efficiency. Javi Gracia’s side scored just one goal – Luis Sinisterra’s neatly-taken consolation – from an XG of 1.4.

While Leeds undershot their ‘Expected Goals’ tally, you certainly cannot say the same of Liverpool. It’s been far from a successful season for Jurgen Klopp’s side. But, as Bournemouth, Rangers and, most infamously, Manchester United found out, when they are in this kind of mood, a defeat can turn into a mauling very quickly indeed.

Liverpool hit Leeds for six at Elland Road from a measly XG of 2.4.

And ask yourselves this; if Leeds were presented with some of the chances that fell the way of Mo Salah, Diogo Jota and Darwin Nunez, how many would have rippled the back of Alisson Becker’s net?

It may seem harsh, after a 6-1 home defeat, to focus on Leeds’ forwards rather than their defenders. But this was another game in which the wastefulness of Javi Gracia’s side cost them dear. Coming just eight days after battering Crystal Palace for 40 minutes before collapsing and conceding five in the second half.

Only Rodrigo Moreno has more than four Premier League goals this term. Patrick Bamford, the club’s only natural ‘number nine’, has just three.

Lois Openda, in contrast, equalled Bamford’s seasonal tally in the space of just five minutes during Lens’ 4-0 thrashing of Clermont recently; the fastest treble in Ligue 1 since 1967.

According to FootMercato, Leeds are one of a number of clubs – along with Monaco, Marseille and Inter Milan – ‘seduced’ by the penalty-area talents of Lens’ £25 million-rated Belgium international.

And with good reason. Openda, across spells at Vitesse Arnhem and Lens, has 56 goals in less than three seasons. 15 have come in just 22 Ligue 1 starts this term.

For all their talents, Wilfried Gnonto, Luis Sinisterra, Crysencio Summerville and Georginio Rutter are hardly ‘natural goalscorers’. You cannot say the same of 23-year-old Openda.

A quick flick through his Lens portfolio highlights a man who possesses so many of the attributes Leeds are missing in the centre-forward position. Quick, skilful, instinctive. Composed and intelligent enough to locate the optimum position and finish with ruthless efficiency. He is excellent in the air, always on the move, and lethal in one-v-one situations.

Openda’s willingness to lead the line and press from the front, meanwhile, makes him a particularly good fit for a Leeds side who’s centre-forward is often expected to be the first line of the defence as well as the last line of attack.

“He didn’t score but today he was excellent!” Lens coach Franck Haise said following a recent clash with Strasbourg. “He tired out the defenders, he won us free-kicks, he ran into space, he battled.

“He (gives us) a new dimension these days, whether he scores or not. If he plays like that, it’s brilliant for the team!”

“Lois is mentally very strong. But what counts is putting in the hard work, keeping your feet on the ground. You have to be humble as a player so that even when you reach your objectives, you set new ones!

“Whatever happens you need to believe in yourself and in your work and he does that very well!”

Would Leeds have made more of a fist of things on Monday night if they had Openda leading the line against Liverpool? He, of course, would not solve Javi Gracia’s defensive issues. But maybe Leeds would have put away one of their handful of chances before Klopp’s side turned on the afterburners and blew the hosts into the river Aire.