Human scalp has thousands of hairs that grow and fall on an everyday basis. With the current sedentary lifestyle, poor diet and now the post COVID era, hair loss has become a common issue among people. With hair being such an important part of our overall look and personality, who doesn’t want to have beautiful thick hair.Science and technology has been on the go to find new active substances that help in natural hair growth and prevent hair loss. REDENSYL, has been one of them. The most recent plant based advancement in the field of hair care and hair growth. Let’s have a look!

Redensyl is a natural, cosmetic plant based molecule that is considered to be a brilliant hair catalyst. It stimulates the dormant hair stem cells (one of the reasons hair growth stops) and activates them to promote more hair growth.

All of these four molecules play in sync and increase the anagen phase of hair growth which usually starts declining due to aging factors.

While we talk about the latest advancements in the field of hair care, there is a plethora of Haircare and Hair growth methods and herbs mentioned in Ayurveda as well, a 5000 year old system of medicine. Let’s see what Ayurveda , the oldest system of medicine, says about Hair growth.

Hair or ‘kesh’ as Ayurveda likes to call it is considered as a sub tissue in Ayurveda. Ayurveda considers characteristics of hair depending upon multiple factors:  The paternal influence, the diet and the dominant Dosha in the body.

To combat all the external factors that affect hair growth and to restore the natural quality of hair and promote hair growth Ayurveda recommends a series of diet, lifestyle and a correct combination of herbs.

Hair Growth as per Ayurveda is not only an external process but also an internal process which is why diet plays a major role in overall hair health.

* Consume Amla in any form. Be it candy, pickle, chutney. An Amla a day will keep your dermatologist away.

* Make sure your digestion works well. Ayurveda says poor digestion is a result of most diseases in Ayurveda.

* Including Chayawanprash in your diet will take your hair health a long way as well.

* Get yourself tested and find out if you are deficient in any of the minerals such as Iron,Calcium, Vitamin D and then make sure to consume the right supplements.

* Proteins in your diet are a must for healthy hair.

VIHAR AS PER AYURVEDA (LIFESTYLE AS PER AYURVEDA)

Find out the underlying issues such as hypothyroidism, hormonal imbalances etc and get them treated with an Ayurvedic doctor to treat secondary hairfall.

Reduce the stress levels. Increased stress affects the hair growth and leads to hair thinning in the longer run.

Hair oiling 2-4 hours before washing your hair will help a lot with hair fall. You can use hair oils such as Bhringraj hair oil, Neelibhringadi oil etc

Sweat it out for the pores. A 30 minute activity daily will help you open up your scalp pore which will eventually increase hair growth.

Washing your hair twice a week post oiling and hair packs mentioned will majorly help.

Ayurveda literature mentions various kinds of herbs that promote hair health .The hair herbs are classified under three categories

* Kesha Sanjana ( Herbs that help in origin of hair)

* Kesh Vardhan (Herbs that help in growth of hair)

* Kesha Ranjana (Herbs that help in dark colour of hair)

These herbs are mixed in appropriate amounts to make hair oils, capsules and tablets that help in hair growth. Some of the hair oils that are useful in hair growth, new hair origin and helps in giving darker colour to hair are

You can make your own hair packs with Ayurveda as well.

A combination of Amla, Reetha and Shikakai  can be used, soaked overnight and then blended into a paste can used as a hair mask once a week .With this, you can add

Powder of Amla can be used as a base to make the hair pack as well. With this you can add

These packs will nourish your hair and provide the shine and smoothness to your hair. Always keep in mind to use cold water to prepare the hair packs.

Planet Ayurveda Hair Care Pack is a 100% natural product formulated with the correct composition of all these herbs. It has multiple ingredients. It is free from chemicals and preservatives. The key Products of the pack are Go Richh Protein Shampoo, Go Richh Hair Oil, and Go Richh Hair Conditioner along with a Hair Growth Formula & Gleaming Skin, Hair, Nails Capsules helps you remove moisture and dirt from the hair and can be applied twice a week. Common herbs included in this are Bhringraj, Bhrami, Triphala, Jatamansi etc. These herbs and capsules are 100% pure and vegetarian helps to remove excess moisture from the scalp and thus provide smoothness and shine to the hair.

This combination of diet, lifestyle and correct herbs and oil will give you thick,shiny hair that you can pass on to the generations to come. Ayurveda as compared to redensyl definitely has an upper hand in dealing with hair and hair issues. Passed on to us from the past 5000 years, Ayurveda helps you give you healthier, thicker and shiner hair.