Join us live tonight, Sunday, April 16th at 9:00 p.m. ET or watch ParksCenter anytime on our new home, WDWNT. TV.

Each week, we cover the top stories in Disney Parks news and discuss the topics that are top of mind for the Disney community. We’re back tonight with more news and discussion surrounding the latest happenings in Disney Parks. Join us live at our new time, 9 p.m. ET!

Fresh on the minds of many guests, Annual Passes and Magic Keys returned this week and are basically gone again.

Disney CEO Bob Iger said during the 2023 Annual Meeting of Shareholders call that the Premier Pass would not return, allowing guests to travel to both Walt Disney World and Disneyland with the same annual pass. It wasn’t long, though, before it was announced that both the Disneyland Magic Keys and the Walt Disney World Annual Passes would resume sales.  As of today, almost all tiers of both are now sold out or unavailable again.

Tron has officially opened since last we talked, and we’ll take a look at some of the merch, as well as the newly reopened gift shop and the demand for this long-awaited attraction.

Happily Ever After has returned to Magic Kingdom and EPCOT Forever is back to replace Harmonious. This week, we saw the beginning of the barge demolition.

This Saturday is Earth Day and the 25th birthday of Disney World’s fourth and wildest theme park.  We’ll talk about a lot of offerings that will be available at Disney’s Animal Kingdom to celebrate the occasion.

Finally, we’re taking a look forward at what’s on the horizon for Disney Parks in 2023 and beyond!

So much to cover, and we’ll pack it all into 90 minutes. You won’t want to miss this special episode of ParksCenter!

Also, our WIGS members receive a 30-minute interactive post-show each week, exclusive to our Patreon program.

Check out a recent episode of the show below.

ParksCenter is broadcast live on YouTube every Sunday, now at 9:00 p.m. ET!

For the latest Disney Parks news and info, follow WDW News Today on Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram.