Category:

Nigeria News

Novelist Chimamanda Adichie has faulted Nobel laureate, Prof. Wole Soyinka that

the comments made by the Labour Party’s vice presidential candidate, Datti

Baba-Ahmed were fascist.

Adichie, in an interview on Arise TV on

Tuesday night, said she still held Soyinka in high esteem and admired him, but

that she disagreed with him on this particular issue about Datti.

“Because I respect Soyinka a lot, I went back and watch the

interview again. I think fascism is a really strong word, which often made me

think of Mussolini of Italy. We use it now. I do not see any reason Datti

Baba-Ahmed’s interview would have been termed fascist.

“I think he

was making a very strongly and fair point about the election and he was saying,

which again, I thought is fairly reasonable, that if our democracy is rooted in

the constitution and you then swear in a person who is being elected

unconstitutionally, and you are in fact ending democracy.

I think it

is quite a reasonable position. Of course we can argue about what that means in

the constitution,” Adichie said.

“I am very grateful for this whole

election period because it made me read things I probably would have, such as

the Nigerian constitution and also made me have quite a few suggestions for

editing.

I think now we are talking about what ‘and’ mean right. So

Mr. Ahmed Datti-Baba is saying that it is two-third and the FCT and that’s

separate and its a reasonable argument right.

“You know ‘and’ is a

conjunction and we use it in that context often to mean plural right so we say;

Aisha and Yemi are coming and we don’t say Aisha and Yemi is coming, that is

because they are two separate things, two separate entities and of course the

court will interpret.

“I don’t think it unreasonable for educated

Nigerians who can read, who knows what the word ‘and’ means to make their own

interpretations and to argue it and of course the fact that the Labour Party in

court means that they do not believe that this election is constitutional and I

didn’t quite see it should be termed fascist,” she added.

Adichie

said she had suggestions for what “we could use fascist for. We could use

fascist for INEC because as it is right now, many Nigerians feel cheated by INEC

and deeply disfranchised by INEC and there is an authoritarianism which

obviously is the basis of fascism at the center of manipulating an election

because what you are doing, you are gagging people, you are forcibly taking away

their voice, that is fascist.

“Fascist is all of the violence that

happened during the election. Fascist is the way some people remain silent about

that violence. Fascist is a government that hasn’t come out to address the very

tangible and palpable discontent in this country.

“I think that when

I say that we can use fascist for INEC, what I mean is the fact that many of us,

including myself are convinced that this is not in any way technological glitch.

I think that Prof. Yakubu had an opportunity for heroism and I thing he wasted

it spectacularly.”

Rovedana Limited - Our client is a global oil and commodities trading company that trades and markets oil, refined oil products, gas an...

Category: Nigerian National News         In a new article published on The Washington Post, Nigeria's  President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan...

How to Start Your Pure Water Business

Introduction    It is important to note that most people these days are seeking for business which they can do and yield profits in a...

A grocery store is a shop where food and other things used in the home are   sold.          Is there a difference between a grocery store...

Category: Supermarket Business       Supermarket is one of the most lucrative businesses that can thrive anywhere   in the world. Succeeding...