"War Cities": from military enclaves to Smart Military Districts

Session 3.13 within the 11th AISU Conference (Italian Association of Urban History) to be held in Ferrara (Italy) on 13-16 September 2023.

Coordinators: Marco Falsetti (Sapienza Università di Roma)

Since the 1980s, the process of divestment of industrial areas and large public infrastructures-which had characterized the city between the nineteenth century and the first half of the following century-has initiated a phase of profound rethinking of the role of such citadels. Military complexes, in particular, which for centuries had been true self-sufficient cities within the urban fabric, were affected in Italy as well as in the rest ofWestern Europe by processes of reconversion, the result of the changing needs of defense as a consequence of the change in the military paradigm. The affirmation of the professional army model as opposed to the conscription model (and the abolition of the latter) in fact made it clear that many complexes, originally designed to house thousands of soldiers, were no longer needed by the army of the future. In recent years, the defense sector has placed a strong emphasis on the need to modernize its building stock through the construction of next-generation military bases marked by energy efficiency, sustainability and functionality. This interest has often translated into a close dialogue with public administrations and land governance, in some cases also involving private individuals, who have contributed to the development (especially in competitive opportunities) of interesting urban regeneration proposals. Even more recently, alongside projects aimed at implementing the quality of the architecture of defense complexes, a model intended to revolutionize the perception of military facilities through the opening of parts of them (and their services) to the civilian population living in the surrounding areas has been developed. In fact, the idea of opening the doors of barracks expresses a strong symbolic element, that is, to allow citizenship access to places historically considered closed and inaccessible; both the "Green Barracks, Blue Bases and Blue Airfields" project, currently underway, and the more ambitious "Smart Military District," which pioneeringly applies the design principles ofthe Smart City to the defense sector, move in this direction. The session addresses the changing urban paradigm of "war cities", from their emergence in the industrial age to the contemporary by investigating their forms, patterns, strategies and perceptions. From the aesthetic changes introduced in Prussian barracks located in cities that have become Polish, to MVRDV's housing projects for decommissioned U. S. bases in Germany, to Defense projects in Italy the session is aimed at scholars and experts in the field interested in analyzing the change over time of war cities.

Submissions accepted until 15 May 2023

If you have any queries or require further information, please contact Marco Falsetti (marco.falsettiuniroma1.it)

According to Conference indications complete papers will be subject to peer review and published after the discussion within the Conference Sessions: https://aisuinternational.org/en/collana-insights/