HOPKINTON, Mass. - The fog and rain didn't deter runners or spectators from filling the area around the Boston Marathon start line.

"It's just super exciting to watch everyone, all the hard work that goes into it,” said Michelle Buonora. “I can't even imagine running a marathon myself, but I admire the ones who can. A lot of work."

Buonora came to the start line dressed as Wonder Woman. She said she wanted to be there to support all of the women who were running.

“All the women out there,” Buonora said. “Everyone, but especially the wonder women running the marathon."

The Boston Athletic Association said more than 30,000 runners hit the pavement for the historic race. Family and friends of participants lined the route for miles, some enduring the rain even though they didn't have a dog in the fight.

"We live in town, and we're here to support everybody,” said Colleen Burns. “We don't have a specific runner running. It is so fun to be from central Mass. It is crazy to think that they start here and run all the way to Boston, so we're super excited to support them with that."

Some said Marathon Monday is a holiday marked on the calendar every year, even if you've moved away.

"It's everything,” said Mike Richardson. “I mean, it's one of the biggest days of the year here in Hopkinton. We both went to B. C., so we spent time at mile 21. It's awesome, such a great tradition."

Richardson grew up in Hopkinton, but he and his wife now live in Alabama. The two made the trek back to Massachusetts for the race.

"It's a little cold, but we're here for it,” said Sarah Katherine Richardson. “We're doing the easy part."

A common theme amongst Hopkinton residents was tradition. Rain or shine, hot or cold, Marathon Monday is still Marathon Monday.

"We constantly brag about the marathon and we try to get people to come,” said Nicole Cassarino. “And when we come, we're like, 'this is why we love this town.'"

"We brag about Hopkinton a lot, and we say it's where the marathon starts," said Katie Maresca.