YOUR washing machine could be costing you extra money and causing mould in your home based only on where it's positioned.

There's a chance that keeping your washing machine in the wrong place could mean it's running inefficiently - meaning you could end up spending more as a result.

There are several ways your washing machine can be prevented from working properly and calling out someone to fix a problem could cost as much as £180, according to Checkatrade.

While the trade directory says that hiring professionals to clear mould from your entire house can cost a whopping £1,170.

Both of these costs combined total a huge £1,350.

The exact amount if it could you will vary depending on how big the problem is, where you live and who to employee to do the job.

Alastair Cooke, a cleaning manager at Miele told The Sun that while most people decide where to put the appliance based on the available space in the home, it often requires more thought.

He said: "Washing machines are designed to operate optimally around room temperature.

"Exposure to high or low temperatures, as well as humidity, can cause the washing machine's components and plumbing to malfunction or deteriorate over time.

"This can result in reduced efficiency and potentially costly repairs."

For this reason, Alastair says people should avoid placing their washing machine in the garage.

He said: "A garage is not a sensible place as they are typically not insulated, which means they can experience extreme temperature and humidity fluctuations throughout the year."

Instead, households should think about keeping their washing machine in the utility room, or if space is limited, in the kitchen.

Alastair told The Sun that keeping the washing machine upstairs is becoming a popular trend - but this should only be done with certain types of machines like washer dryers.

"Heat pump tumble dryers require no venting to the outside so as long as the plumbing and electrical connections are available, anything is possible," Alaistair added.

"They can even be installed in under-stair cupboards. "

But forgetting to open the door after a wash cycle could lead to mould building up with the machine itself.

A quick wash of your detergent drawer will banish germs and nasty smells.

But mould could also spread beyond the machine and onto walls if you have a vented washer dryer that can't be vented straight outside.

This is because the machine will release the moisture-laden air back into the house.

It's best to keep these type of machines near an external wall or a window so that you can have a vent fixed through the wall to allow moisture to escape outside.

Putting the heating on is one of the biggest drains on your energy bill anyway, but sometimes you're inadvertently doing things that can increase your bills.

For example, there's one fact in particular to know if you want to stop spending unnecessary money - don't dry your clothes on the radiator.

If you do, it keeps the radiator from working properly and you might need to leave the heating on for longer to feel its effect.

Potentially, up to £55 could go down the drain every year as a result.

Of course, it could be more or less depending on the size of your home, your provider and how much energy you normally use.

Clothes dryers don't need to cost the Earth either - there's one from Dunelm that will set you back just £12.

Also, letting heat escape through your chimney could throw away up to £300 a year.

That's if you don't have something to block the opening whenever you turn on the heating.

A damper is a seal for your chimney to ensure cold air stays out and warmth from indoors can't escape.

You can install one by yourself if you're used to carrying out small DIY jobs - you shouldn't need any tools to help.

It should fit right up into the flue system which sits above the smoke chamber.

Hopefully it'll slide in comfortably, but there might be a few screws to tighten if your damper comes with them.

But that's the most you'll need to do.

We've seen dampers from the likes of Amazon for £22, but don't forget about added delivery costs.

However bear in mind it'll cost an average of £250 to have someone come in and fit it for you, which could be quite pricey.

Don't forget to do regular annual boiler service checks either - they could actually save you up to £550 a year.

For more energy-saving tips, make sure to read through our handy guide.

Do you have a money problem that needs sorting? Get in touch by emailing money-sm@news.co.uk