Hailey Bieber is a style chameleon who can rock everything from backless mermaidcore mini dresses to micro shorts and oversized leather jackets, and everything in-between! And one thing the Rhode Beauty founder has rocked time and time again is the little black dress – although we have to point out she looks amazing in long black dresses too, which her Vanity Fair Oscars after-party look proved – with one of her latest looks in New York City being the latest example!

READ MORE: Hailey Bieber Slayed A Cream Mini Dress With A Chest Cutout And Two Massive Flower Appliqués For Easter

On Tuesday, April 11th, the 26-year-old Victoria’s Secret model was snapped by paparazzi flaunting her insanely long legs in a 16Arlington little black dress, with huge emphasis on the word little! Hailey’s ‘Althenea’ strapless embellished stretch-crepe LBD features an 80s inspired exaggerated crystal buckle at the top and even comes with an internal corset inside to make her silhouette even smoother!

Hailey accessorized her daring dress with some leg-elongating sky-high pointed-toe black heels, and kept out some of the Big Apple chill by adding some sheer Calzedonia tights to her impossibly short dress. Adding tights to short dresses is also a great way to instantly add class and sophistication, as Hailey and so many other celebs have done!

Although it was dark, Hailey wore some thin rectangular Saint Laurent 557 sunglasses and accessorized with small gold hoop earrings, a bracelet, and a small black purse. She kept things chic with her hairstyle, as her hair was pulled back in a sleek low bun. She nailed every aspect of this look, so we feel if Hailey wants to give fashion advice, we should listen to every single word…

When Hailey sat down with none other than Justin Bieber, 29, who acted as her interviewer for Vogue Australia‘s February issue earlier this year, she gave fans some solid fashion advice!

“My top wardrobe tip would be you can never go wrong with the basics,” she explained. “By that I mean a great pair of jeans, a white tee, a good pair of loafers and a great leather jacket. I think you can never go wrong with those essentials,” she added. And we definitely think a little black dress also falls under those wardrobe must-haves!

READ MORE: Hailey Bieber Shuts It Down In An Itsy-Bitsy Polka Dot Mini Dress