BREAKING NEWS: WATCH: (This Article Was Written Nearly Five Years Ago On June 6th, 2018, In View Of The Future Homegoing Of Dr. Charles Stanley, Who Died Today): Billy Graham Was America’s Prophet And Evangelist; Charles Stanley Was America’s Pastor And Teacher. It’s Time To Start Saying Thank You To This Great Man Of God

Here Is What Daniel Whyte III Wrote In Honor Of God And Dr. Charles Stanley On June 6th, 2018, Nearly Five Years Ago, In View Of His Future Homegoing: Usually, When A Great Basketball Star Is Getting Ready To Leave The Game, Even Other Teams Will Give Him A Standing Ovation And A Gift. May We Encourage All Pastors And Bible-believing Christians Nationwide To Invite Charles Stanley To Their Church To Preach The Word Of God And Support InTouch Ministries Financially. He Did Not Ask Us To Do This And Probably Would Not Accept Many Invitations. But Let’s Show Double Honor And Appreciation For This Great Man Of God.

The hosts of TBN‘s Praise program, Matt & Laurie Crouch, interviewed Dr. Charles Stanley — pastor of Atlanta’s First Baptist Church, radio host, and bestselling author — on a recent episode. (By the way, Matt and Laurie Crouch are better interviewers than Matt’s parents and TBN founders, Paul and Jan Crouch.)

The 85-year-old preacher broke up in tears when asked how he would like to be remembered. He said the principle he lives by is: “obey God and leave all the consequences to Him. He hopes people would remember him as someone who did just that.”

Many pastors today try to do what Charles Stanley has done quietly in Atlanta, where he has pastored for 47 years. His church is a model for races getting along together in the heart of the South. And he did it by loving God, obeying God, preaching the Gospel, and welcoming everybody into the house of God.

A little-known fact about Pastor Stanley is that he is also an avid photographer. His photography is featured in his ministry’s In Touch magazine and wall and desk calendars. Stanley told Matt & Laurie Crouch that when he dies, he’d like to have a Bible in one hand and a camera in the other.