Peter Boyd is an attorney and the Founder of PaperStreet. He has successfully helped 1,500 law firms with their websites and marketing.

Key performance indicators, or KPIs, are the data that tell you whether your marketing campaign is accomplishing your objectives. Without them, you get only a vague estimate of whether your efforts are succeeding or foundering.

The trick is that KPIs can differ for every marketing strategy you implement. So what about social media? Which metrics should you track? And how do you set realistic and useful goals?

When it comes to digital marketing, including social media, you have a wide range of metrics to consider. In general, these KPIs reflect your campaign’s success with one of four objectives: reaching people, engaging people, generating leads and turning those leads into clients. Many of the KPIs that are easiest to track measure engagement and reach.

Measuring engagement with your posts is generally considered to be the most important because that’s what sets social media apart as a marketing tool. On social platforms, you can send out messages broadly like you would an ad on TV or a billboard, yet people can interact with it as they would with a live speaker. Metrics that measure engagement include:

• Active followers (those who have interacted recently).

Some of these KPIs are easier to find than others, but you can find specific tools for measuring specific indicators for different types of social media.

The reach of your message is a concept that applies to every form of marketing. It refers to the number of people who have access to your message. Reach is often an estimate because it really measures the number of people who had the potential to see your message, not the number who actually looked at it.

The metrics that measure reach on social media include the number of followers your firm has, the number of impressions your posts made in newsfeeds or timelines, and the traffic data indicating the percentage of traffic coming to your website directly from social media.

A high number of followers or consistently popular posts does not indicate that a social media campaign is a success. You might gain goodwill and brand familiarity, but to find out whether your social media efforts are making a difference for your law firm, you need to track how well those efforts are generating leads for the firm and how many of those leads become clients.

This can be considerably more complicated and often requires special software used with your firm’s website and database to track the source of visitors who fill in contact forms on the site. That data then needs to be coordinated with the visitors who eventually enter your list of active clients.

Marketing specialists differ in the approach they recommend when it comes to setting KPI goals for social media. Some start by analyzing current performance for a firm’s KPIs, comparing those with industry averages, and trying to reach or exceed average performance. It is important to investigate benchmarks common for the legal profession and your area of practice in particular.

Others begin by starting with a specific business goal for the firm. For instance, for a family law firm that has just had attorneys certified as mediators, the goal might be to make people aware that the firm now offers divorce mediation. The objective then is to see how tracking one or more particular KPIs will help reach that goal.

The next step is to choose the KPIs to be measured for that goal. In this case, the number of impressions and traffic data would be helpful to measure for a campaign devoted to awareness of mediation as a new option at the firm.

To set an initial goal for those metrics, consider the firm’s average performance for those KPIs and set a target of exceeding that by 25%. Measure the performance, and if the goal is too easy or difficult to reach, make notes to adjust the goal for the next time. Keeping track of KPIs over time for various campaigns will provide your firm with the data to really be able to measure the success of your various strategies.

Marketing, and social media marketing, in particular, is a field where experimentation yields the best results. It can be difficult or impossible to predict the strategies that will work best, so rather than spending too much time and effort in prediction and planning, it is often most advantageous to try an approach, evaluate the performance, and then try another approach and compare the results.

To set the right KPI goals for your social marketing campaign, you will need to start experimenting and monitor your results. Every firm is different, and every goal in every firm is different, so there is no preset chart or formula that can provide you with the right goals. If the process exceeds your available time resources, an experienced marketing professional could help you get a system set up to track KPIs or to develop the best techniques for evaluating your results and creating new goals for the future.

Forbes Agency Council is an invitation-only community for executives in successful public relations, media strategy, creative and advertising agencies. Do I qualify?