Bail set at $2 million for South Elgin man who accused of stabbing his mother to death

Michal Wybraniec, 30, was charged with first-degree murder in his mother’s slaying Sunday, according to the Kane County state’s attorney’s office.

SHARE

Bail set at $2 million for South Elgin man who accused of stabbing his mother to death

A man was charged with fatally stabbing his mother April 16, 2023 in South Elgin.

Bail was set at $2 million for a South Elgin man who allegedly stabbed his mother to death. Michal Wybraniec, 30, was charged with first-degree murder, according to a statement from the Kane County state’s attorney’s office. Wybraniec allegedly stabbed Beata Wybraniec, 53, multiple times Sunday at the home they shared in the 200 block of Thornwood Way, the state’s attorney’s office said. Wybraniec’s mother attempted to escape the home, but he caught her outside and continued to stab her, officials said. If convicted, Wybraniec faces 20 to 60 years in prison. His next court date was set for April 26.

Dozens of Cook County employees resign or are fired in clerk of court, county inspector general’s PPP fraud probe

Dear Abby: Sorry, we can’t hang out with you, because we don’t want to

As Walmart pulls out, community group steps in to fill void on South Side

No injuries reported in blaze at pallet yard on Southwest Side

A large number of pallets were engulfed in flames, prompting fire officials to upgrade the blaze to a two-alarm fire and call for more resources, officials said.

The Cubs’ three-game series against the A’s this week is his first against his hometown team.

Englewood Nature Trail stays on track with $3 million in state funding

Chicago as a whole can benefit when long-neglected neighborhoods such as Englewood are sensitively redeveloped.

Officials fought amongst themselves and street cops were overwhelmed, Ald Brian Hopkins said, as groups of teens jumped on cars and set fires in the Loop — and at least three teens were shot. ‘Nobody knew who was in charge,’ Hopkins said.

The Cubs reinstated Hughes from the 15-day IL on Saturday.