Napa Valley, CA, April 17, 2023 – Cakebread Cellars is pleased to announce the appointment of Niki Williams as winemaker, effective immediately. Williams will oversee winemaking operations for Cakebread Cellars as she becomes only the fifth winemaker in the company’s 50-year history.

“We are excited to welcome Niki to the Cakebread Cellars family. Her great energy, passion for terroir, and extensive experience in bringing out the best result in every step from vineyard to bottle make her an excellent choice to continue our winery’s legacy of creating the highest quality wines,” says Aaron Fishleder, Vice President of Operations. “We are very confident in Niki’s ability to leverage her winemaking innovation knowledge while staying true to the signature style for which Cakebread is known.”

Williams brings a wealth of red and white winemaking experience to Cakebread Cellars, with prior posts at notable wineries including the Prisoner Wine Company, Chateau St. Jean and Merryvale. Williams offers a seasoned approach to elevating quality, consistency and sustainability practices that complement the winemaking philosophy that Cakebread Cellars has adhered to its founding and plans to further refine over the next 50 years.

“I am delighted to join the winemaking team at Cakebread Cellars. The winery’s rich history and commitment to quality and sustainability made this winery an exceptionally intriguing destination,” notes Niki Williams. “I am eager to bring my knowledge and techniques to the team as we build for the next 50 years and continue to honor Cakebread’s commitment to producing the highest quality wines.”

Williams joins Winemaker Jane Dunkley, who leads Bezel wines, Cakebread Cellars’ latest introduction from California’s Central Coast, and Consulting Winemaker Sally Johnson Blum, who recently joined the team to oversee Mullan Road Cellars, a Cakebread Cellars wine produced in Walla Walla, Washington.

To learn more about Cakebread Cellars wines, its 50 year history, and the winery’s upcoming events, please visit cakebread.com/50th-anniversary and follow @cakebreadcellars. To learn more about Bezel and Cakebread Cellars’ Washington project, go to bezelwines.com and mullanroadcellars.com.

Cakebread Cellars was founded in 1973 by Jack and Dolores Cakebread, whose sons, Bruce and Dennis, own the winery today. In its 50-year history, the family-owned winery has earned a reputation for its exceptional wines, leading-edge sustainability practices, and culinary excellence. Cakebread Cellars is the proud recipient of multiple sustainability awards, including the Napa Green Medal Award IWCA silver level membership, along with several Great Places to Work awards. Its success is built on quality, consistency, and continuity – not only in grape-growing and winemaking, but in the dedicated people who create Cakebread Cellars’ world-class wines. Best known for its Chardonnay, Sauvignon Blanc, Cabernet Sauvignon, and Pinot Noir, the family’s offerings include 18 wines in total, with 9 distributed nationally and internationally.