Uber today banned one of its drivers following an alarming video where he was caught with his trousers down in the back of his vehicle with a female passenger.

The driver with a Rochdale private hire badge was confronted by a resident who spotted him outside his house at around 9pm on Easter Sunday.

The man scrambles out of the car with an Uber sticker on the door as the woman is kneeling on the backseat with her head in her hands.

The video, shared widely on social media, has sparked a response from Uber, who said: 'We are horrified by what is depicted in the video and are taking action. We have banned the driver while we investigate and are working directly with the police.'

Rochdale Borough Council said: 'This is a live police investigation and we are liaising with Greater Manchester Police with a view to acting on any information they confirm and share with the Council.'

Labour MP for Rochdale, Tony Lloyd, told MailOnline: 'This must be taken very seriously and I've asked Greater Manchester Police to investigate this. I expect a very rapid investigation by the police as well as by Uber.

'This is a really worrying video and a rapid investigation is necessary. The protection of young people is paramount and this video needs to be investigated to give the public reassurance and to protect vulnerable young people'.

The video has been shared widely on social media. The Uber driver was spooked after parking outside someone’s house.

The man filming the incident taps on the window and the Uber driver immediately pulls up his pants and jogging bottoms.

The woman kneeling on the back seat tries to hide her face.

Filming the Uber driver's face, he says: 'Yo, what you're doing? Brother, what are you doing? In the month of Ramadan and you're doing stuff like this? What the f*** are you doing? This is disgusting. What are you doing? I've got kids inside here.'

Filming the Uber badge on the Toyota Auris, he says: 'What kind of taxi are you? You dirty b***ard'.

The Uber driver repeatedly says: 'I'm sorry. I said I'm sorry. Bro, I'm sorry.'

He slowly gets out of the car and back into the driver's seat before driving away.

Uber has been trying to improve its reputation after it emerged drivers had not been properly vetted.

In 2018 it emerged that more than 2,500 Uber drivers had been investigated for suspected offences including sex assaults, stalking and dangerous driving.

And more than 1,400 drivers were the subject of repeated complaints for lower-level misbehaviour, such as discriminatory comments and 'inappropriate interpersonal conduct' toward passengers.

Uber then promised to make a number of changes including hour limits for drivers, 24/7 telephone support for passengers and drivers and the reporting of serious incidents to the Met Police.

A year earlier London transport chiefs told Uber drivers they must apply for new criminal record checks.

Regulators rejected Uber's vetting process and wrote to 13,000 minicab drivers telling them their background checks were no longer valid.

Up to a tenth of the company's workforce then had 28 days to make new applications for vetting or risk being struck off.