After the end of its long-standing FIFA tie-up, EA Sports has finally axed its original governing body linked branding and introduced its new look for what is now known as ‘FC’ – the world’s most popular sports game.

Working with creative studio Uncommon – which is creating the new brand vision, identity and logo) – the first wave of rebrand and redesign creative was dominated by triangles – inspired by the in-game triangles which indicate which footballer character a player is controlling and the shape which also features in the isometric angles and polygons of the actual virtual football moves too.

The set-up behind the campaign is that triangles have long been a core part of football’s vernacular and that the shape personifies slick interplay skills between soccer players – both out on the physical, real-world pitch and virtual ones in-game.

The game’s new triangular logo badge – with a pair of custom typefaces (drawn from inspiration from the game interpreting the Johan Cryuff turn and Brazil’s Marta’s signature Move – was introduced on LED perimeter advertising hoardings during more than 100 games around the world in mid-April and was backed by a series of brand, ambassador, influencer and club partner social media posts and even via genuine club pennants handed over at the start of Champions League matches.

The new identity launched with a strong line-up of EA Sports partners which included leagues (including the Premier League, La Liga, Bundesliga, Serie A, Ligue 1, WSL, NWSL and Conmebol, as well as a host of teams and several star player ambassadors.

Plus, limited-edition pennant merchandise appeared in European stadiums, while further supports came from player ambassadors (such as Karim Benzema and David Beckham), clubs and football media platforms who all helped amplify the push on social.

“This is where the story of EA Sports FC begins. We’re building on 30 years of leadership and history creating experiences that bring the global football community together, and continuing to take it into a fan-first future,” added EA Sports FC SVP & GM Nick Wlodyka. “EA Sports FC will be a symbol for the sport, a symbol of innovation and change, and we’re energized to show our fans more about the future in July.”

“Football comes in many colours, but only very few shapes. Through set pieces, formation design and elegant possession patterns, the language of the beautiful game is often communicated in triangles,” explained EA Sports FC’s VP Of Brand David Jackson. “The shape has also been deeply embedded in EA Sports football games for decades; from the isometric angles of our very first 8-bit experiences to the iconic player control indicator that appears above every athlete in every match — triangles play an essential role in the building blocks of EA Sports football experiences. We’re energised to bring this core symbol of football’s foundations to life through EA Sports FC.”

“Clients tend to approach the studio in a moment of change. The task of partnering with EA Sports to brand not only one of the most iconic games ever to exist, but also arguably the biggest football club in the world was irresistible. Without knowing it, the new logo had been in our hands for almost 30 years. Above the heads of our heroes. Between passes and the feet of legends celebrated the world over,” outlined Uncommon Co-Founder Nils Leonard. “Discovering the FC marque within the triangle so fundamental to the beautiful game was thrilling. To anyone that’s ever kicked a ball, with their foot or their thumb, we hope this does the beautiful game justice.”

Premier League Chief Executive Richard Masters added: “Through our long-standing partnership with EA SPORTS, we are able to bring fans around the world closer to the Premier League and we recognise the importance of the next generation in growing the future of football. We look forward to the relationship evolving through the launch of EA SPORTS FC, whether that’s bringing in developments in the ePremier League, opening new football pitches to benefit communities in the UK, or providing fans with exciting in-game experiences.”

This is a task on the scale of rebranding Coca-Cola and our verdict is….we think it is a sleek refresh authentically linking both the real and virtual football worlds.

A new photography style, designed to put fans in ‘the heart of the game’, will also roll out across all brand touchpoints later in 2023.

This is the first, pre-launch phase of the rebranded EA Sports FC title following a 20-year association with world football’s governing body (which saw FIFA collect more than $100m in licensing fees) and the first iteration of the rebranded game will launch at the end of the year to its community of 150m-plus gamers across multiple platforms.

While FIFA is exiting the pitch, other EA partners who will continue to work with the game in an official capacity and thus continue to collect licensing fees include clubs, leagues, federations and confederations spanning more than 19,000 players, 700 teams, 100 stadiums and 30 leagues.