AVIXA, the audiovisual and integrated experience association, has announced that there will be a wide-ranging digital signage programme at this year’s InfoComm event, which takes place from 10-16 June (with exhibits from 14-16 June) at the Orange County Convention Center in Orlando, Florida. This will feature in-depth workshops, the D=SIGN conference and show floor tours, as well as a networking mixer at Vū Orlando.

“InfoComm is the premier trade show for the digital signage community,” says Rochelle Richardson, CEM, senior vice president of expositions and events at AVIXA, producer of InfoComm. “At the show, you’ll learn from the top minds in the digital signage space, see solutions up close, and build professional connections to help you build a winning digital signage strategy.”

On Tuesday 13 June at Vū Orlando, AVIXA will host the Sixteen:Nine Digital Signage Networking Mixer, bringing together integrators, designers, content creators, and other members of the digital signage community. The venue is home to a 155′ x 26′ immersive LED Volume, one of the largest permanent volumes in the United States.

From 13 – 15 June, attendees can discover solutions and trends in digital signage during the D=SIGN Conference, produced in partnership with the Digital Signage Federation. One session, entitled Is Your Legacy Digital Signage Network Ready for an Upgrade?, will take a deep dive into various pain points for network operators, as well as looking at strategies for upgrading a dated system. This discussion is scheduled for Tuesday 13 June and will feature insights from Heather Best of Diversified, Filipe Ho of Google, Pamela Lobaton from Spectrio and Lance Hutchinson from Alpha Video and Audio.

Then, on Wednesday 14 June, Touchdown! Interactive Branding Across Sports and Stadiums will look at new ways that sports organisations are using visual technologies to enhance the fan experience and boost brand awareness. Panellists include Peter Beck from Forty Nine Degrees, Steve Bayer of Daktronics, Ryan Lenocker from the Dallas Cowboys Football Club and Lee Summers from Creative Realities.

Also on Wednesday 14 June, Invidis Consulting’s Florian Rothberg will host the Market Insights Lunch: Digital Signage, presenting exclusive market data from the company that demonstrates global trends and drivers. In addition, Rothberg will talk about how multi-channel retail, sustainability, AI, and the experience economy are shaping digital signage solutions.

The D=SIGN conference is sponsored by Google and Samsung.

Brawn Consulting’s Alan Brawn, CTS, and Jonathan Brawn, CTS will lead a full-day workshop on Sunday 11 June, entitled Digital Signage Certified Expert (DSCE). This event will take a business-oriented approach, enabling attendees to master the formulas for successfully planning a digital signage network, including design, hardware and software selection, deployment, content creation, and ROI/ROO for digital signage rollouts.

On Monday 12 June, the pair will also host the full-day workshop Digital Content & Media Expert (DCME), looking at the impact and relevance of content.

Click here for a full schedule of the digital signage programme.

The Technology Innovation Stage (booth 2260) will host free presentations from Wednesday to Friday, covering key pro-AV topics, including trends in digital signage.

A digital signage pavilion will be present on the InfoComm 2023 trade show floor, displaying content creation and digital signage software, direct-view LED displays, projection technology, and more. From 10 to 11:30 a.m. on 14 ns 15 June, attendees can opt to go on tours of the show floor that are specifically focused on digital signage, designed to give a general overview of the tools, technology, and factors that are essential for a successful digital signage strategy.

The Digital Signage Federation will also be present at booth 409 on the show floor.

To register for InfoComm 2023, please click here. InfoComm 2023 is sponsored by Strategic Partners Blackmagic Design and Creston and Supporting Partner Shure Incorporated. Blooloop readers can get free access to the show on registration by using the code BLOOLOOP.