READ MORE:  McDonald’s is AXING five popular items from its menus

McDonald’s is AXING five popular items from its menus

McDonald's is offering Quarter Pounder with Cheese for £1.49

READ MORE:  McDonald’s is AXING five popular items from its menus

McDonald’s is AXING five popular items from its menus

McDonald's is offering Quarter Pounder with Cheese for £1.49

If chocolate isn't your idea of an Easter treat, then McDonald's fans can snap up a sweet discount on a fan favourite - but you'll have to be quick.

Customers have until midnight to get their hands on a discounted Quarter Pounder with Cheese for £1.49 instead of the usual £4.19.

That's a huge saving of almost 65 per cent, but the deals is only available through the My McDonald's app, and can be found in the offers section.

You'll also earn reward points - 149 to be exact - when you buy using the app.

The discount is subject to availability and it's available in selected stores around the UK only.

McDonald’s also recently delighted fans by adding five new items to its menu -  available for a limited time only.

Back by popular demand is the £4.49 Chicken Big Mac, which first debuted last year.

The fast food joint also introduced a brand new Steakhouse Stack, the Mighty McMuffin, fan favourites Mozzarella Dippers, while the Cadbury Creme Egg and Cadbury Caramel Egg McFlurry have also returned.

Foodies can now kick off their morning with the Mighty McMuffin which first arrived on menus in Christmas 2022. However the brand have decided it isn’t not just for Christmas, so it has returned for another three months.

The breakfast muffin is filled with sausage, egg, bacon, cheese, and ketchup or brown sauce.

Also joining the menu today is the new Steakhouse Stack a premium new beef burger, developed to evoke flavours of steak with peppercorn sauce, which is priced at £5.39.

It features two 100% beef patties, a slice of cheddar cheese, crispy onions, red onions, and lettuce topped with a creamy peppercorn sauce, all in a freshly toasted bun.

Fan favourites Mozzarella Dippers are priced at £2.19 for a single serving, while a sharebox is £6.19.

And for a sweet tooth the Cadbury Creme Egg and Cadbury Caramel Egg McFlurry is available for £1.99.

The Chicken Big Mac was first launched in February 2022, and fans declared they were 'devastated' and 'heartbroken' when it was taken out of the country's 1,300 restaurants a mere 10 days later.

Within days of its release, the brand announced they had sold out, promising the popular sandwich would return.

At the time, McDonald's UK and Ireland said they had been 'delighted' by the customer reaction to the Chicken Big Mac.

A spokesperson said: 'The demand has been incredible and we simply cannot keep up.

'As such we've made the decision to pause the promotion, let our restaurant teams and suppliers restock and get ready for its return in a few weeks.

'We'll keep customers informed about its return through the usual channels. Thank you to everyone who has made this our most popular launch ever.

'We can't wait to bring it back for even more customers to enjoy.'

McDonald’s has also launched a new month-long promotion called Winning Sips.

Where customers will get the chance to win prizes including £10,000 cash, menu favourites and limited-edition merch including bucket hats, towels and Coca-Cola® glasses when purchasing a medium or large soft drink.

In addition to its new menu items, McDonald's is also hiking prices of several customer favourites including its black and white coffee.