SAN DIEGO – For the first time in three starts this season, "Fastball Freddy" wasn't at the top of his game.

Freddy Peralta allowed five runs over five innings – all with two outs – to a potent San Diego Padres lineup that had been mostly held in check each of the previous nights, and this time the Milwaukee Brewers offense wasn't able to pick up the slack behind him.

The result was a 10-3, nationally televised loss at Petco Park on Saturday afternoon that got badly out of hand late.

It came only a few hours after the sobering news that another stalwart of the Brewers rotation, Brandon Woodruff, will be out of action for the foreseeable future due to a shoulder strain.

Even the dependable Hoby Milner was roughed up in this one, as he allowed four runs out of the bullpen in the seventh.

Then, to make matters worse, promising rookie reliever Gus Varland was knocked from the game in the eighth inning in a scary sequence that saw him take a line drive off the side of his face.

Milwaukee's bats, meanwhile, combined to go 2 for 8 with runners in scoring position while grounding into a pair of double plays, both by Brian Anderson, with the second coming in a two-on, one-out situation in the third.

For the third time in as many games in the series the Brewers scored in the first.

Christian Yelich drew a leadoff walk from Seth Lugo and scored on a double to right by Jesse Winker, who was playing for the first time on the road trip after recovering from a case of bronchitis.

Three batters later, Anderson's single scored Winker to make it 2-0.

The Padres also had plenty of two-out magic against Peralta, however.

They started a first-inning rally when Juan Soto drew a walk with Xander Bogaerts, Nelson Cruz and Jake Cronenworth all singling behind Soto to make it 2-2.

Then in the second, Trent Grisham lined a two-out double to right and scored on a Manny Machado single that gave San Diego its first lead of the series.

Milwaukee came back to tie it in the fourth when, after singles by Victor Caratini, Brice Turang and Joey Wiemer loaded the bases, Lugo plunked Winker in the elbow with an 0-2 pitch to force in a run.

Lugo departed at that point but the Brewers failed to cash in any more runners as Willy Adames flied out to right against Steven Wilson.

The two-out theme continued in the fifth for San Diego when Cruz singled and Cronenworth followed a batter later with a homer to right that made it 5-3.

Peralta (2-1) finished the fifth and departed having thrown 98 pitches and allowed nine hits, the five runs and a walk with five strikeouts. Having entered the day with an earned run average of 0.75, Peralta saw his jump to 3.18.

Joel Payamps used a double-play grounder to get out of trouble in the sixth, but Milner wasn't so lucky in the seventh.

After allowing a leadoff walk to Soto, Bogaerts singled and Soto scored on a sacrifice fly by Cruz. Cronenworth applied the finishing touches with a homer to center that made it 8-3.

Varland, in for mop-up duty in the eighth, took a 105.1-mph line drive off the bat of Machado that appeared to first glance off his shoulder and then carom up and hit him in his right cheek.

Varland went down immediately but quickly got back up and after being examined by the Brewers' medical staff was able to walk off the field on his own power.

Javy Guerra finished out the inning, but not before hitting Bogaerts and then walking in a pair of runs.

Milwaukee actually tied San Diego by racking up 12 hits in the game, with Caratini accounting for four of those, all singles, to set a career high.

More: Milwaukee Brewers players injury updates for the 2023 season