AL Roker has made a huge career announcement about a project he is involved in outside of The Today Show.

In his post, he let fans know they "were back" as a new season of his podcast started today.

On Tuesday, Al took to Instagram to let his followers know what he is up to next.

"We're back, baby...and we've got a SPRING in our step!" he captioned the post.

"Join @dylandreyernbc @sheinelle_o and moi for an all-new Live OFF THE RAILS on @todayshow Radio Channel 108 on @SIRIUSXM @offtherailstdy starts 1pm et . Info at link in bio."

In the photo, Al, Dylan Dreyer, and Sheinelle Jones stood in front of a SiriusXM Satellite Radio Show.

The Today Show hosts were all smiles.

Al wore a suit, with his hands out to his sides.

Dylan was dressed casually and pointed to the sign behind her.

Sheinelle also wore a graphic tee and jeans as she had her arms out wide and her mouth open in a smile.

Off the Rails airs on SiriusXM Channel 108, which is run by Today, and features conversations with the co-hosts.

They often discuss Today segments, their families, and several other topics.

Al has been working on a lot of projects outside of the morning show.

Earlier this month, he told his followers that he is the executive producer of the political film Kenyatta: Do Not Wait Your Turn, which premiered in March.

The movie’s Instagram account shared a glowing review from one fan following a screening at the AmDoc (American Documentary and Animation Film) festival in Palm Springs, California.

A documentary student said: “It’s refreshing to see subjects like this portrayed because we don’t really get to see this side of politics.

“Especially as young voters, it’s inspiring to see really mobilizing content about representatives who really just want to represent people in the country that need the most representation.”

The student admitted that the movie was an “eye-opener” to how the political process operates.

She said it helped raise awareness of the obstacles that candidates face.

The meteorologist thanked fans for their enthusiastic response in an Instagram post.

In January, Al told his followers about his upcoming PBS show, Weather Hunters.

The ABC anchor posted a snap from his forthcoming PBS cartoon to Instagram, explaining to his supporters the details of his new project in the caption.

"Excited for today's announcement about Weather Hunters, a new animated STEM Series from Al Roker Entertainment and PBS," the 68-year-old wrote.

"I predict increasing animation with downpours of family friendly storytelling and a rising understanding of #weather and #climate."

In the caption he also encouraged curious fans to read more about the show via clicking the link in his bio.

Fans of the meteorologist have flooded his Instagram comment section, praising his new educational kids' show.

His wife, Deborah Roberts, 62, complimented: "This is wonderful. A longtime coming. What a great recovery gift."

NAACP-winner Victoria Christopher Murray lauded: "How cool is this. I love it. Major congratulations!"

A fan emphasized: "How exciting! Can’t wait to watch it with my kiddos! Thanks for your commitment to educating us!"

A release dates has not yet been set.