Jonathan Majors has been in turmoil following his arrest on domestic violence charges, this escalated to no longer being represented by Entertainment 360. Although most news outlets have stated that neither Marvel or Disney are considering a recast, the same outlets question if there is a recast in the midst.

Following the events in NYC, his representation dropped him because of his personal behavior, this according to Dateline.

Majors is not finding support easily as the Lede Company, a PR firm also began their separation process from the Quantumania actor recently.

Majors had caught momentum and worked very hard to get where he was and part of the recognition for his work gave him perks such as being part of the A-Listers who attended Anna Wintour's Met Gala, however, he will not be representing Valentino anymore.

As a more minor element of this, Majors and fashion house Valentino "mutually agreed" that the

Jonathan Majors concluded the shooting of Loki's second season reprising the role of Kang the Conqueror and dateline reassures that neither Marvel nor Disney has hinted any recast or news of dropping the actor from his participation with both companies.

Majors will appear in front of a judge on May 8 to face counts of harassment and assault from the New York City's District Attorney.

His legal counsel Priya Chauldry spoke to the press back in March 27th strongly stating that "Jonathan Majors is completely innocent and is probably the victim of an altercation with a woman he knows, we are quickly gathering and presenting evidence to the District Attorney with the expectation that all charges will be dropped imminently."

Chaudhry elaborated "evidence includes video footage from the vehicle where this episode took place, witness testimony from the driver and others who both saw and heard the episode, and most importantly, two written statements from the woman recanting these allegations."

Majors' legal counsel also released the text conversation that her client had with the reported victim and who pressed charges: "Please let me know you're okay when you get this. They assured me that you won't be charged. They said they had to arrest you as protocol when they saw the injuries on me and they knew we had a fight. I'm so angry that they did. And I'm sorry you're in this position. Will make sure nothing happens about this. I told them it was my fault for trying to grab your phone. I only just got out of hospital. Just call me when you're out. I love you."