ELIZABETHTOWN – Fox Sutton pitched a 2-hitter and struck out 6 batters, and Elizabethtown pounded out 12 hits as the Cougars claimed their 1st Waccamaw Middle School Conference victory of the season 19-4 over Tar Heel Tuesday.

The Cougars jumped in front with 5 runs in the 1st inning. Chandler Wall cracked a 1-out single, and Sutton hammered a double. Isaiah Lloyd, Jaden Lewis and Trey Wilson belted consecutive singles, and Wall, Sutton, Lloyd, Lewis and Wilson all scored in the inning.

Jayden Bethea was hit by a pitch, and Carson Navarro walked in the Tar Heel 2nd inning. Both of them came around to score as the Panthers trimmed the lead to 5-2.

Prince McKoy, Sutton, Lloyd, Tykee Hill, Wilson and Hunter Williams all drew walks in the Cougar 2nd inning. Wall was hit by a pitch, and Lewis smacked a single. McKoy, Wall, Sutton, Lloyd, Lewis, and Wilson all scored runs as the Elizabethtown lead swelled to 11-2.

Seth Faircloth reached on an error in the Panther 3rd inning, and Bethea and Dylan McLaurin laced singles. Faircloth and Bethea scored as Tar Heel pulled to within 11-4.

The Cougars pulled away with 8 runs in the home half of the inning. Wall, Sutton, Lloyd and Lewis started the inning with consecutive singles. Hill, Damian Maynor and McKoy drew walks, and Wilson and Wall lined singles. Wall scored twice in the inning, and Lloyd, Lewis, Hill, Wilson, Maynor and McKoy scored 1 time each.

Wall batted 3-for-3, was hit by a pitch and scored 4 runs to lead the Cougar hitters. Lewis also finished 3-for-3 at the plate and scored 3 runs. Sutton slammed a double, was 2-for-2 at the plate with a walk and scored 3 runs.

Lloyd batted 2-for-2 with a walk and scored 3 runs. Wilson finished 2-for-2 at the plate with a walk and scored 3 runs. McKoy walked twice and scored twice. Hill walked twice and scored a run. Maynor walked and scored a run.

Bethea singled, was hit by a pitch and scored twice for Tar Heel. Faircloth reached on an error and scored a run, and Navarro walked and scored. McLaurin connected for the other Panther hit.

The Cougars improved to 1-5 in league play and 1-6 overall and will travel to Bladen County Park to play Tar Heel on April 26th. Tar Heel, now 0-6, will host Whiteville Central Wednesday at Bladen County Park.