Procrastination is complicated. It can be the result of stress, burnout, low motivation, poor time management, or a whole other variety of reasons. Sometimes people push off their work because they have too much to do and don’t know where to start. In other cases, people simply procrastinate because they work better under pressure. Regardless of the reason, it’s typically not the healthiest or most productive way to get work done.

When employees push off their work, stress inevitably rises as due dates approach, which leaves more room for unintended mistakes. Key stakeholders may wind up getting looped in at the last moment, making it harder to effectively address problems that may arise. So, as a manager, how can you help your team members avoid procrastination?

Many people find themselves procrastinating when they don’t fully understand the assignment. Expectations may not be clear or they may not know who to go to for the information they need. Whenever you’re reviewing tasks with your team members, it’s important to directly ask, “do you have everything that you need to move forward?” Be careful to frame this question in a way that makes them feel comfortable being honest, and then help them find the answers they need. If you have the context they’re missing, make sure to share it. If you don’t, help them identify which stakeholders could be useful contacts to help them get the clarity they need.

Employees might procrastinate work when they don’t have a hard deadline to work toward. So, even if there’s some flexibility for when things need to be ready, try to set due dates. This helps align expectations and prevents work from falling through the cracks. Additionally, your team members can better manage their time and prioritize their workloads more effectively.

Sometimes, big projects feel so overwhelming that it can be challenging to know where to begin. It can be useful to assist your team members in breaking those big assignments up into smaller, more digestible tasks that feel more managable. Help them create mini-deadlines for various components within the big project so they can check off steps and more easily visualize progress.

Some employees tend to procrastinate when they have too much going on. It’s important to be intentional with meetings, given how much time they can eat up. Think through who actually needs to join, make sure every meeting has an agenda, and share relevant material beforehand to maximize time together. This way, meetings will produce their intended results and employees can have more time to focus.

Procrastination due to burnout can be very harmful, so encourage your team members to take breathers throughout the day and sign off at reasonable hours. As a manager, you set the tone for your team, so consider the expectations you’re setting. Research shows that taking time to disconnect and recharge can have powerful effects on productivity, stress, and morale. So, demonstrate what it means to prioritize a work-life balance and support your employees in doing the same.

Everyone has their own reasons for procrastinating. That’s why it’s so important to check in with your team members so and understand how to address their unique needs. Create a dynamic in which they can feel comfortable sharing the challenges they are facing and be sure to respond in a way that feels supportive and proactive. For example, if a team member shares that they may be pushing off work because there’s just too much on their plate, you can try and reallocate some of their workload or help them prioritize tasks so they know what to tackle first. Or, if someone is procrastinating because they work better under pressure, try to create shorter deadlines for different stages of the project.

Did you know that a Work OS like monday.com can help your team members manage their time wisely? Keep track of projects, individual tasks, and more — all in one shared workspace. Understand bottlenecks and risks so you can keep moving forward and empower your team to deliver their best work.

Want to learn more? Get in touch with our team of experts today.