Two of the Australian cricket’s biggest names have married within days of each other, with Mitch Marsh and Travis Head now officially off the market.

Both sets of newlyweds have taken to social media to share the exciting news.

Watch, Stream & Catch Up with Australia's Home of Cricket on 7plus  >>

Travis Head and Jess Davies were married at their home, with photos taken at nearby 100-acre Carrick Hill Estate in the Adelaide Foothills on Saturday.

“15•04•2023... and I can’t wait to spend the rest of my life, as your wife reminding you of how incredible you are.”

A second post continued, “Nothing more special than marrying my best friend at our home, in-front of our closest friends and family.”

The couple have a daughter together with Milla born in September last year.

Teammates and their partners were quick to congratulate the pair, with Amy Finch, wife of former Aussie ODI and T20I skipper Aaron commenting, “So stunning!! Congratulations guys.”

Wife of Usman Khawaja, Rachel said: “Congratulations guys!! These photos are beautiful, Jess you look incredible!!!”

Meanwhile, just days before, teammate Marsh announced his marriage to partner Greta Mack with the words,”best day of my life.”

The pair married at Mack’s family property, The Farm Byron Bay-the same place the pair got engaged in September 2021.

The pair’s bridal party included former West Coast Eagles player Brad Sheppard and his partner Ellen.

Both weddings were attended by cricketing royalty with Australian skipper Pat Cummins among the guests.

Marsh earned his first international cap at 19 and has since become an integral member of the ODI and T20 squads. In 2021, he helped Australia win the T20 World Cup with 71 runs in the final.

Head enjoyed a standout summer for the Australian Test team but was controversially axed for the first Test against India. He returned to play out the series and looks set to hold his place for the upcoming ICC World Test Championship in June ahead of the much-anticipated Ashes.