WARNING: This story contains distressing details and deals with suicide.

The deaths of two people Saturday evening in the southwest community of Spruce Cliff are believed to be a case of murder-suicide, police say.

In a release, police detailed the weekend incident where they were called at around 7 p.m. to Spruce Place S. W., where several bystanders had found a dead woman.

While first responders were assessing the situation, a man jumped from an upper-level balcony and was declared dead at the scene, police said Monday.

"This event was domestic in nature. However, we believe this was a new relationship and we are still trying to determine the nature of the relationship and the events that led up to this tragic outcome," Staff Sgt. Sean Gregson said in a statement.

"Our condolences go out to the family and friends who have been impacted."

Police identified the female victim as Joanne Suk-Wah Tse, 69. Investigators said De Lin Tang, a 61-year-old man found dead at the scene, died by suicide.

The suspect either threw the victim or pushed her over the balcony, and her hands and feet were bound, Gregson said at a Monday news conference.

He added he doesn't believe that domestic violence or crimes of this nature are on the rise in Calgary.

"This is a very unique event," Gregson said. "I can't remember, 24 years of being a police officer, that I've seen something like this."

Police had previously said the incident was witnessed by "many" members of the public. People who saw or were affected by the deaths were offered counselling on Sunday.

"We recognize it may be upsetting to those who witnessed it and want to ensure witnesses and those impacted by this event are connected with support," police said in an earlier statement.

The names of the two dead are being released to help with the investigation as detectives search for people who may have more information about the events leading up to the deaths.

They are also looking for the suspect's car, a white, 2023 Subaru Outback with Alberta plates CNR0008.

"As we were progressing through the investigation and identifying people, we noticed that his vehicle wasn't at the scene there," Gregson said, adding it would've been his main means of transportation to get to the location.

"We've checked the residence. It's not there. So it just leaves that question: where is it, how did he get there?"

If you or someone you know is struggling, here is where to get help: