MY ADVENTURES OF SUPERMAN Teaser Trailer Reveals A First Look At Adult Swim's Anime-Inspired DC Series

After moving from HBO Max to Adult Swim, My Adventures of Superman has been confirmed for a summer 2023 debut with a teaser trailer that showcases the anime-inspired animation. Check it out right here...

MY ADVENTURES OF SUPERMAN Teaser Trailer Reveals A First Look At Adult Swim's Anime-Inspired DC Series

After moving from HBO Max to Adult Swim, My Adventures of Superman has been confirmed for a summer 2023 debut with a teaser trailer that showcases the anime-inspired animation. Check it out right here...

DC has released the first teaser trailer for My Adventures With Superman, offering a much better idea of what to expect from the Adult Swim series with an animation style inspired by Japanese anime, similar to the original Teen Titans series.

As well as sharing new footage from the show, it's been confirmed that it will premiere sometime this summer.

My Adventures With Superman recently shifted from HBO Max to Adult Swim after the streamer passed on the series. Similar to those Marvel Television animated shows that debuted on Hulu before Marvel Studios took over, we're guessing this will only get a single season before DC Studios launches the DCU with the in-universe Creature Commandos.

According to the official synopsis, "My Adventures With Superman catches up with twenty-somethings Clark Kent, the bright and driven Lois Lane, and their best friend Jimmy Olsen as they begin to discover who they are and everything they can accomplish together as an investigative reporting team at the Daily Planet."

In this serialized coming-of-age story, we'll follow Clark as he builds his secret Superman identity and embraces his role as the hero of Metropolis - and perhaps the world. Lois, now growing into a star investigative journalist, takes aspiring photographer Jimmy Olsen under her wing. All the while, Clark and Lois are falling in love, sharing adventures, taking down bad guys, stumbling over secrets, and discovering what it means to be Superman and Lois Lane.

Jack Quaid (The Boys) and Alice Lee (Zoey’s Extraordinary Playlist) lead the voice cast as Clark Kent and Lois Lane, respectively. Ishmel Sahid, meanwhile, plays Jimmy Olsen and Brainiac will be brought to life by Michael Emerson.

Check out the first teaser for My Adventures QWith Superman below.

AC/DC is good. AS/DC is better. My Adventures With Superman starring Jack Quaid is coming this summer. pic.twitter.com/9MzRn66LKn

— DC (@DCOfficial) April 6, 2023