DEAR SUN SPOTS: Lewiston Senior Citizens will host a craft fair from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. May 22 in the senior game room at the Lewiston Armory, 65 Central Ave.

The fair is a fundraiser for the Art and Creative Program. There will be raffle baskets and homemade crafts. Let’s celebrate spring by supporting our wonderful and talented seniors.

Tables are available for rent. Call 513-3059 if interested.

Thank you for all you do. — Bonita, Lewiston

ANSWER: Please support this effort if you’re able to do so. It’s always enjoyable to admire and purchase crafts made with love.

DEAR SUN SPOTS: My mom passed away last year. She had roughly 150 song/music books from 1900 through today. We’re hoping we can find someone who might give them a good home. Contact me at 784-6259 — Diane, no town

ANSWER: I’m sending my condolences to you along with a hug. I had a musical mom as well with a cupboard full of music materials. We sorted it all and even sold a good number of items to an antique/vintage shop. Upon going through that process, we discovered that some of the music was collectible and therefore worth a little money. There was music from the World War II era and the ’50s through the ’90s. Mom also had books with Broadway play music written for piano along with lyrics so those were snatched up. Covers and art in good condition make the music books and sheets worth much more.

If there is music written or made popular by early 20th century personalities such as Scott Joplin, Al Jolson, Fannie Bryce, or Eddie Cantor, that could bring in some dollars, as could Black Americana music, and songs from the ’40s through the ’80s, which is considered to be “vintage.”

Also look for pop culture icons such The Beatles, Elvis, Carole King, Jimi Hendrix, The Beach Boys, Michael Jackson and others. Anything autographed could be worth more, and of course all items should be in good condition with all pages intact.

There is a Facebook page titled Vintage Sheet Music Buy and Sell (https://www.facebook.com/groups/782392759265270/)

A collector will surely be interested in your mom’s collection, but in case you don’t get any takers, reach out to a high school music teacher and/or musicians in your area, or perhaps a college or university archivist would be interested in browsing through what you have. There very well could be pieces to add to their archives especially if there is music specific to Maine. See The Maine Music Box (https://digitalcommons.library.umaine.edu/mmb/).

Artists and interior decorators may want the music to use for collage, origami, as a background for watercolor painting, or to frame. — Let us know what happens.

Moving forward, I remind all my dear Sun Spotters that when you are offering something or need a service or item, please include the town where you live so other readers know in advance how far away you are from them and if the time and cost of travel to pick up or leave something is worth it.

This column is for you, our readers. It is for your questions and comments. There are only two rules: You must write to the column and sign your name. We won’t use it if you ask us not to. Please include your phone number. Letters will not be returned or answered by mail, and telephone calls will not be accepted. Your letters will appear as quickly as space allows. Address them to Sun Spots, P. O. Box 4400, Lewiston, ME 04243-4400. Inquiries can also be emailed to [email protected].