S&W-Smithing Maintenance, Repair, and Enhancement of Smith & Wesson and Other Firearms.

LET'S TALK CLEANING RODS - SOME MAY BE SHOCKED

When I first started cleaning guns (58 years ago - @ age 11) I bought a Sears & Roebuck 3 section Aluminum cleaning rod in a kit - kind of a one size fits all type deal. I used that type for a number of years but never really cared for them. When I got a bit more knowledgable and could afford to upgrade, I went to Brass rods but noticed they were not much better than the Aluminum. Not too long after I switched over to a to a solid Nylon coated rod. Nylon coated solid rods seemed to be the cat's meow and I thought they were great - that is until they started chipping and picking up abrasive debris.

So then in my mid 30's I decided to call Mr. Dewey of Dewey cleaning rods. He was a very nice guy who spent time explaining the advantages and disadvantages of the different types of cleaning rods and materials. After talking for a while he suggested I switch over to his stainless steel solid rods, I was aghast at first. I said, "use stainless steel inside my bores"? He explained that if properly cared for, his stainless steel rods will not pick up any abrasive debris and actually cause less damage than a coated rod after they start chipping and getting porous. He also told me there are certain solvents that will not play nice with coated rods and cause them to deteriorate.

Well, I listened and learned. I wound up buying a bunch of his Stainless Steel cleaning rods in different calibers and lengths and still have and use them all to this day. Every 3-6 months I check them throughly and if there is even the slightest hint of a nick, scratch or burr (rare), I use very very fine crocus cloth to smooth them out so they are as smooth as a baby's butt! My cleaning rods stay straight, don't bend and have never done any damage to any bore or cylinder charge hole.

I have never regretted switching over to Dewey stainless rods and have never had to replace any. Anyone of my friends who ask me, I always recommend the same for them. I don't know how good other brands of stainless rods are since I have never owned any others. With minimal inspection and maintenance, they will last lifetimes and only get smoother with usage and this simple maintenance.

While I know nylon coated rods are all the rage now, anyone having deterioration issues with them might want to consider what I am posting here. I know this is a controversial subject and some here might think I'm nuts, but I did listen to "the man" and IMHO he was dead on! YMMV.

NOTE: In the beginning of using stainless rods I was using a bore rod guide. Shortly thereafter I learned the technique of not hitting the lands and groves without the guide. It takes a little hand/eye and muscle memory coordination, but most will pick that up quickly if they try. I rarely use a guide anymore.

PS: The Brass rod on the right is strictly for 12 Ga. Shotguns - no issue with it in a 12 Ga. bore. The other rod on the left is one my Dad made out of aluminum on our lathe - don't really use it but I don't have the heart to get rid of it.

Forum Jump

All times are GMT -4. The time now is .