The truth is that you want more.

You can’t pretend any longer that you are just fine with the kind of sex you are getting in your relationship.

It’s just not enough.

Not often enough, not long enough, not satisfying enough, not hot enough, not deep and profound enough, not spiritual enough, not fulfilling enough.

Yes, you can make yourself ok with things because you don’t want to disrupt the balance of your relationship, but how long can that last?

How long have you already waited…?

We know it’s a difficult conversation to bring up with your partner.

You’re concerned about the reaction they may have.

You worry about the negative effect it can cause and the consequences you’re going to pay for stirring up such uncomfortable topics.

But the truth is, deep down, this is making you feel frustrated, sad, restless, lonely, unmet, and it’s only a matter of time before you give up completely, or start looking elsewhere.

You may have even already started noticing other guys/girls around that you find attractive.

You will never do anything to hurt your relationship, but the desire and yearning is burning inside and you have no one you can talk to about it, you feel trapped.

It’s a deep seated need, the need to express everything you are sexually, the need to explore deeper pleasure, you feel something is missing, and you don’t know how to deal with this.

Your partner will not understand, you think he or she just doesn’t have that depth you are looking for.

They don’t have your same needs and desire.

They will never be as naughty as you would like them to be with you.

They seem to be just fine where they are.

They seem like they don’t even want to face what’s underneath their sexual habits and what’s outside of their sexual comfort zone.

You intuitively know it.

You feel it’s not your place to move them from their stuckness.

You actually feel uncomfortable fully exposing that part of yourself to them.

They may not accept it, they may not understand it.

They may even judge you and reject you!

So what to do?

You are in between settling forever for an unsatisfying and boring sexual life OR facing a difficult conversation that may lead to the deeply fulfilling sexual intimacy you are craving!

We know how it feels, we have been there, and we overcame it.

We’ve also helped numerous couples overcome this problem too.

And if you are committed and willing to take action, we can help you overcome this problem too.

This is The Path Of Devotional Love.

We can help you to make sure that you will have that difficult conversation in the safest way possible so that it creates actual progress.

We can help you mediate the conversations and minimize any negative impact this may have on your relationship.

We can show you how to shift these dynamics IN YOUR NERVOUS SYSTEM, so that you experience a change not only in the way you think, but the way you behave.

Whatever will come up from that conversation will be the material we work with.

And together, we will help you CREATE the kind of sexual intimacy that you and your partner deeply desire.

See, all of us cope in different ways with past traumas, fears, insecurities and negative beliefs.

Often we do it by numbing, avoiding, and staying on a shallow level in relationships and sexuality.

It’s not something many couples can overcome on their own.

It takes a professional to help turn things around.

It takes an external support to hold space for you as a couple to face this sensitive and triggering topic.

It takes the right tools, perspective, experience and expertise to navigate this intimate, vulnerable and difficult challenge.

And we can do it.

We already did it with many couples successfully!

We will gently but firmly guide you through the intricate depths of healing and opening yourself up to new dimensions of pleasure and sexual intimacy.

We will help you navigate this delicate transition in your relationship so that both of you will come out stronger and happier.

Your relationship will blossom and grow to unexpected levels, and you will experience a renewed passion, connection and soul-nourishing hot sex.

If you’re truly committed to creating a deeply fulfilling, pleasurable, and satisfying sexual intimacy with your partner, apply below for a Free Sexual Intimacy Exploration Call with us.

In this 60–75 minute call we will help you and your partner identify the deeper causes that are responsible for the gap in your sexual intimacy.

We will provide you with a step by step action plan that will give you a clear pathway to heal the deeper traumas and intimacy blocks that are currently preventing you from experiencing the deeply nourishing sexual intimacy you yearn for.

And you’ll walk away with clarity, understanding, hope, and a potential solution to resolve this issue in your relationship.

We are so excited to support you in ushering in this new depth of sexual intimacy and pleasure into your relationship.

Click the link below to apply.