Come next week, Singapore will play host to 48 of the world’s best golfers, who will be taking over the green at The Serapong course at Sentosa Golf Club from 28 to 30 April. They will be here for a tournament–not just any tournament, but the first LIV Golf event in Singapore.

Touted as a golfing event with a difference, LIV Golf turns the format of tradition golf championships on its head by introducing shorter tournaments with smaller fields, less players, shotgun starts, and concurrent individual and team events. The result is a faster-paced, more action-packed competition that’s designed to keep fans on their toes.

A truly global league, LIV Golf’s 2023 season will cover 14 tournaments across seven countries. Singapore will be its fifth event. Here are five things you can expect at the tournament.

Witness great golf played by some of the world’s best players. Some names that golf fans will likely recognise include Phil Mickelson, Dustin Johnson, Byrson DeChambeau, and Patrick Reed. Look out for Spanish champion Sergio Garcia, whose last game at Sentosa Golf Club in 2018 culminated in a win at the SMBC Singapore Open.

There are many ways to enjoy the tournament, from the most basic Ground Pass (S$53.99++) to the highest tier Club 54 (from S$1,079.87++). With the latter, you will start your day with a handcrafted drink while watching the players warm up on the practice range. During the main tournament, get prime view of the action from the 18th green. Refuel with a chef-driven multi-course selection of local fare, and an all-inclusive bar.

Make it a party at Birdie Shack (from S$340.08++), where DJs will be spinning music live. You’d get views of the 17th green and 18th tee box here, as well as three drink tickets to keep the party vibes going.

Get a once-in-a-lifetime chance to play with the pros. It’s made possible with the Pro-Am package (from S$11,326.52++). In a small group of three amateurs, tee off with a pro on the front nine, and end the experience with a different pro on the back nine. The package includes meals and a special gift.

World-class entertainment is a part of the deal. Grammy Award-winning electronic duo The Chainsmokers will conclude day two of the tournament on 29 April. Watch them perform live at Palawan Green and get ready to dance to hits such as All We Know, Inside Out, and Something Just Like This. Tickets start from S$128++ and include options for bundles that give access to LIV Golf. Buy them here.