Cryptocurrencies have been ‘down only’ for around 18 months now, and many events are already priced in. LUNA collapse, Greyscale collapse, FTX collapse, Silicon Valley Bank collapse, the list goes on. Measuring the sheer volume of sell pressure over this time period, it is hard to see how the bottom of the market is not already in. From a few months ago and likely over the next six months also, it seems like the perfect time to build up a portfolio ready for the next bullish wave in the market.

A blockchain-based AI platform called Avorak AI provides several AI solutions for investors and blockchains. The tool is designed to assist traders and investors in making wise financial decisions through in-depth data analysis and precise price forecasts. Avorak trading bots are unique since they are made to monitor the market continuously, produce signals based on their analysis, and even start transactions automatically. This level of automation and accuracy may be useful for traders who wish to boost their returns and reduce risks.

Undoubtedly an intriguing prospect, the potential for cryptocurrencies with AI-powered technologies, like Avorak AI, to alter the banking and investing sectors is pushing AI crypto to the forefront of crypto trends. Massive volumes of data can be analyzed and processed by AI technology, and predictions and judgments made using that data may result in more successful and profitable ventures.

SHIB is another crypto that has had a wild ride over the past few years. From rock bottom to top hype, Shiba Inu coin news has encompassed Vitalik Buterin burning half the supply, charity organizations getting on board, new developments, and minting a new generation of millionaires.

The latest Shiba Inu coin news is the addition of ‘Shibarium.’ Shibarium is a layer-2 (L2) network to run over Ethereum, using the Shiba Inu cryptocurrency. It will transform the traditionally ‘meme-ish’ Shiba Inu into a full ecosystem.

Already in the testnet stage, this could be the Shiba Inu coin news that sends SHIB to the next level.

Want to learn more about Avorak AI?

Disclaimer: This is a sponsored article, and views in it do not represent those of, nor should they be attributed to, ZyCrypto. Readers should conduct independent research before taking any actions related to the company, product, or crypto projects mentioned in this piece; nor can this article be regarded as investment advice.