Govt Giving Loan of Rs 1 Lakh Under PM Mudra Yojana? PIB Fact Check Debunks Fake Claim

Nagaland State Lottery Result Today 6 PM Live, Dear Hill Wednesday Lottery Sambad Result of 19.04.2023, Watch Live Lucky Draw Winners List

Teacher Records Sex Videos Inside UK Schools! Wales Woman Films XXX Clips of Herself Masturbating With Vibrator in School Classroom and Toilet, Probe On

Jacqueline Fernandez Is a Sight to Behold as She Oozes Oomph in Lavender Crop Top, Thigh-High Slit Skirt (View Pics)

On Friday, the Housefull 2 actor raised the temperature as she shared a string of pictures on her Instagram in a lavender crop top paired up with a matching thigh-high-slit skirt.

Actor Jacqueline Fernandez is an absolute fashionista. She never fails to impress the audience with her amazingly hot looks. On Friday, the Housefull 2 actor raised the temperature as she shared a string of pictures on her Instagram in a lavender crop top paired up with a matching thigh-high-slit skirt. Jacqueline Fernandez Looks Drop-Dead Gorgeous in a Blue-Purple Hued Saree on Her Latest Instagram Post!She kept her makeup heavy, and her hair open and completed her look with minimal jewellery. In one of the pictures, the actor could be seen playing with her cat on a couch. In another picture, the Attack actor could be seen giving a hot pose on her couch.Soon after she dropped the picture, fans swamped the comment section and dropped red hearts and fire emoticons. "You are my favorite Jacks," a fan commented. "Wowww soo hot," another fan wrote. "Looking is so beautiful," a user wrote. Another user commented, "Gorgeous." Jacqueline Fernandez’s Makeup Free Selfies Are a Treat for Her Fans! (View Pics).Meanwhile, on the work front, Jacqueline was last seen in director Rohit Shetty's comedy film Cirkus alongside Ranveer Singh, Varun Sharma, and Pooja Hegde. The film failed to impress the audience at the box office. She will be next seen in the upcoming film Fateh opposite actor Sonu Sood. Helmed by Vaibhav Mishra, Fateh is a cyber-crime. Sonu and Jacqueline have participated in various workshops, and are expected to be coached by ethical hackers on the sets while filming as well. The official release date of the film is still awaited.

Bollywood

Kisi Ka Bhai Kisi Ki Jaan Movie: Review, Cast, Plot, Trailer, Release Date – All You Need To Know About Salman Khan, Pooja Hegde, Venkatesh Daggubati’s Film!

Viral

'Sexiest Non-Sex Scenes' in Bollywood Movies: Twitter Abuzz With Clips Having No XXX Content Leaving Twitterati Hella Sweaty

Hollywood

The Marvels: Fans Disappointed With #MeToo Accused Mohan Kapur's Presence in Trailer, Want Marvel to Recast Him or Reshoot His Scenes - Here's Why

'It Takes Time To Settle Down in Marriage': Supreme Court Refuses To Use Powers of Article 142 To Dissolve 40-Day Union of CoupleTeacher Records Sex Videos Inside UK Schools! Wales Woman Films XXX Clips of Herself Masturbating With Vibrator in School Classroom and Toilet, Probe OnHeatwave in April in Asian History: Severe Heatwave Causes Deaths, School Closures in India, Record-Breaking Temperatures in ChinaChandra Grahan 2023 Date and Time: All You Need to Know About Forthcoming Penumbral Lunar Eclipse Event			Read More

Mumbai Water Cut News Update: Good News for Mumbaikars! BMC Rolls Back 15% Water Cut Decision, Normal Supply of Water To Begin From April 23Peacock Attacks Two Persons Stealing Eggs From Its Nest, Rare Retaliation Video of Blue Bird Goes ViralMadhya Pradesh Train Collision: Two Goods Trains Collide With Each Other Near Singhpur Railway Station in Shahdol; Motormen Injured, Two Railway Workers Feared Trapped (See Pics)Salary Hike for Cognizant Employees: IT Giant Announces Appraisal, Raises Pay of Over 3 Lakh Workers in Third Increase in Last 18 MonthsDisney Layoffs 2023: Entertainment Giant Planning Another Round of Sackings, To Eliminate Thousands of Jobs This Month, Say Reports

Today's Trends

Benadryl TikTok Challenge: What Is the Viral Benadryl Challenge? Second Death Due to Dangerous Trend As Johnson & Johnson Issues Statement Over Dangers of Online Challenge

Amid Fear of Layoffs, Bain Offering New Recruits USD 20,000 To Become Yoga Instructors, Go on Safari in Bid To Delay Their Start Dates: Report

Salary Hike for Cognizant Employees: IT Giant Announces Appraisal, Raises Pay of Over 3 Lakh Workers in Third Increase in Last 18 Months

Disney Layoffs 2023: Entertainment Giant Planning Another Round of Sackings, To Eliminate Thousands of Jobs This Month, Say Reports

India News | Is GDP Overestimated or Underestimated? Congress' Jairam Ramesh Highlights Article by Central Statistical Office Ex-DGsIndia News | As India Becomes World's Most Populous Nation, Cries Grow Louder About Depleting ResourcesHow to Avoid the Crowds on SantoriniLatest News | Paint Companies to Log 10-12 Pc Growth in Revenue This Fiscal: Report