Skip to main contentSkip to main content

Sign up for our newsletter to keep reading.

Get the daily forecast and severe weather alerts in your inbox!

You have permission to edit this article.

Here is today's weather outlook for Apr. 19, 2023 in Florence, SC

Florence folks should be prepared for high temperatures. It looks to reach a balmy 87 degrees. Expect a drastic drop in temperatures though, with a low reaching 56 degrees. It should be a fairly cloudless day. The forecast is calling for clear skies. High UV indexes are expected. The sun's rays will be intense. Stay in the shade as much as possible. Wear sunglasses, a hat and sunscreen when in sunlight. The Florence area should see a light breeze, with forecast models showing only 6 mph wind conditions coming up from Southwest. This report is created automatically with weather data provided by TownNews.com. Visit scnow.com for more weather updates.

Get the daily forecast and severe weather alerts in your inbox!

* I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy.

No one expected 31 atmospheric river storms to hit California. The mystery remains why?

As winter approached, few anticipated what was about to hit California. Mired in a serious drought, the state was suddenly battered by an onsl…

Here is today's weather outlook for Apr. 16, 2023 in Florence, SC

The Florence area can expect a very hot day. It looks like it will be a warm 82 degrees. Expect a drastic drop in temperatures though, with a …

Here is today's weather outlook for Apr. 17, 2023 in Florence, SC

It will be a warm day in Florence. It looks to reach a pleasant 74 degrees. Expect a drastic drop in temperatures though, with a low reaching …

Here is today's weather outlook for Apr. 13, 2023 in Florence, SC

Florence folks should be prepared for high temperatures. The forecast calls for it to be a warm 81 degrees. We'll see a low temperature of 62 …

Here is today's weather outlook for Apr. 12, 2023 in Florence, SC

Florence will see warm temperatures this Wednesday. It should reach a pleasant 79 degrees. Expect a drastic drop in temperatures though, with …

You don't have any notifications.

Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.