VANCOUVER, BC / ACCESSWIRE / April 19, 2023 / The Power Play by The Market Herald has announced the release of new interviews with ARway, Silver Bullet Mines, Galantas Gold, Lobe Sciences, Northstar Gold and Rover Metals discussing their latest news.

The Power Play by The Market Herald provides investors with a quick snapshot of what they need to know about the company's latest press release through exclusive insights and interviews with company executives.

ARway.ai is an AI powered Augmented Reality Experience platform with a disruptive no-code, no beacon spatial computing solution enabled by visual marker tracking with centimeter precision announces that ARway.ai's spatial computing technology was chosen with Snap and Magic Leap at the 2023 Harvard XR Hackathon, "The Dream/Hack", presented by the Harvard Robotics Club and the Harvard AR/VR Club.

SBMI has previously announced an order for 50 kilograms of silver from the Purchaser, which order has since been increased to 500 kilograms (17,600 oz) of silver. The Purchaser has indicated a willingness to purchase 17,600 oz of silver from SBMI every month for the foreseeable future. Management reasonably believes SBMI has the capability to fill such monthly orders.

Galantas Gold Corporation is pleased to announce that drilling at the newly acquired Gairloch Project will commence in the coming weeks. Drill mobilization has commenced for an initial 800-metre program targeting the Kerry Road deposit, including testing the depth potential of near surface mineralization.

Move Affirms Lobe's Position as an Orphan/Rare Disease Drug Development Company and expands portfolio to include 4 Orphan Disease Programs. The Company expects to Launch Altemia, a Medical Food, and Generate Commercial Revenue in the Second Half of 2023. Acquisition also Includes an International License Agreement With Double Digit Royalty and Milestone Payments, Commercial Inventory and Intellectual Property.

Northstar Gold Corp. announces that a high resolution airborne magnetic survey completed over the Company's 100%-owned, flagship Miller Gold Property situated 18 km southeast of the town of Kirkland Lake, has identified a volumetrically large positive magnetic anomaly (SM-01) partially underplating the near-surface Allied Gold Zone and syenite stock.

Rover Metals Corp. is pleased to announce that it has it received its exploration drill permit from the Bureau of Land Management ("BLM") to further exploration at its Let's Go Lithium ("LGL") project, NV, USA. The LGL project is located on approximately 6,000 acres of BLM land within the prolific southwest Nevada claystone lithium jurisdiction. The BLM permit allows for up to 30 drill holes to a depth of up to 90 meters per hole.

Interviews for The Power Play by The Market Herald are released daily. To learn more about the companies featured in The Power Play or to explore our other interviews visit?The Power Play by The Market Herald.

The Market Herald Canada is the leading source of authoritative breaking stock market news for self-directed investors. Our team of Canadian markets reporters, editors and technologists covers the entire listed company universe in Canada. We cover over 3,985 businesses, their people, their investors, and their customers. We write the stories that move the Canadian capital markets.

DISCLAIMER: Report Card Canada Media Ltd. ("Report Card") is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Market Herald Limited, an Australian company ("Market Herald"). Report Card is not an advisory service, and does not offer, buy, sell, or provide any other rating, analysis or opinion on the securities we discuss. We are retained and compensated by the companies that we provide information on to assist them with making information available to the public. All information available on themarketherald.ca and/or this press release should be considered as commercial advertisement and not an endorsement, offer or recommendation to buy or sell securities. Report Card is not registered with any financial or securities regulatory authority in any province or territory of Canada, will not be performing any registerable activity as defined by the applicable regulatory bodies and do not provide nor claim to provide investment advice or recommendations to any visitor of this site or readers of any content on or originating from themarketherald.ca. Market Herald and/or its affiliates and/or their respective officers, directors or employees may from time to time acquire, hold or sell securities and/or commodities and/or commodity futures contracts in certain underlying companies mentioned in this site and which may also be clients of Market Herald's affiliates. In such instances, Market Herald and/or its affiliates and/or their respective officers, directors or employees will use all reasonable efforts to avoid engaging in activities that would lead to conflicts of interest and Market Herald and/or its affiliates will use all reasonable efforts to comply with conflicts of interest disclosures and regulations to minimize any conflict. All the information on this document and/or the website - themarketherald.ca - is published in good faith and for general information purpose only. Report Card does not make any warranties about the completeness, reliability, and accuracy of this information. Any action you take upon the information you find on this document and/or website (themarketherald.ca) is strictly at your own risk. Report Card will not be liable for any losses and/or damages in connection with the use of our website. From our website, you can visit other websites by following hyperlinks to such external sites. While we strive to provide only quality links to useful and ethical websites, we have no control over the content and nature of these sites. These links to other websites do not imply a recommendation for all the content found on these sites. Site owners and content may change without notice and may occur before we have the opportunity to remove a link which may have gone 'bad'. Please be also aware that when you leave our website, other sites may have different privacy policies and terms which are beyond our control. Please be sure to check the Privacy Policies of these sites as well as their "Terms of Service" before engaging in any business or uploading any information.

View source version on accesswire.com: https://www.accesswire.com/750219/The-Power-Play-by-The-Market-Herald-Releases-New-Interviews-with-ARway-Silver-Bullet-Mines-Galantas-Gold-Lobe-Sciences-Northstar-Gold-and-Rover-Metals-Discussing-Their-Latest-News