LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA: Apple TV+’s upcoming romantic action comedy, 'Ghosted', is set to feature some familiar faces from the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU). Chris Evans, who stars in the movie alongside Ana De Armas, revealed during an interview on 'Good Morning America' that his friends from the MCU would be making cameos in the film. Although the actor did not disclose the names of the guests, he hinted that they might be from his corner of the franchise rather than more recent entries. Directed by Dexter Fletcher, 'Ghosted' follows the story of Cole, a young man who falls in love with Sadie after going on a date with her. However, after she stops responding to his texts, he becomes concerned for her safety and flies to London to find her. Once he arrives, he discovers that Sadie is actually a special forces agent, and he becomes embroiled in a conspiracy far beyond anything he has experienced before.

The film marks a reunion for Evans and De Armas, who previously starred together in Rian Johnson's 'Knives Out'. In that film, De Armas played Marta Cabrera, a main suspect in the death of Harlan Thrombey. Throughout the movie, Cabrera teams up with Evan's character Hugh Drysdale, Thrombey's rebellious grandson, who always seems to disagree with his family. However, it is ultimately revealed that Hugh was actually behind the murder. The duo also appeared in 'The Gray Man' alongside Ryan Gosling and Regé-Jean Page. 'Ghosted' promises to be an exciting blend of action, romance, and comedy, with the added bonus of seeing some beloved MCU actors make appearances. With a talented cast and crew, including director Dexter Fletcher and screenwriters Paul Wernick and Rhett Reese, audiences can expect a thrilling ride when the movie premieres on Apple TV+.

'What the F*** is this!': Fans slam 'Ghosted' clip of Chris Evans and Ana de Armas's meet cute

Chris Evans didn't reveal much about who is going to play what in his movie, 'Ghosted'. However, he did mention that there are a few cameos in this movie. "There are some cameos, that’s right. Can we give that away? I guess we can," he began. "We had some old Marvel buddies back [but] I hate asking people to do cameos – it’s the worst," he said. "If it fits into their schedules I suppose [they’ll do it] but these guys rose to the challenge and they were there for me – it was great," added Chris.

In the same interview, Evans might have shattered the hearts of millions when he ruled out his possibility of ever picking up the shield again. "As much as I would love to [play the character again] – it was such a special time in my life – I’m very precious with the character," he said. "I’m so protective of it. To come back, it would have to be for the right reasons and at the right time," Evans said. "It feels a little too soon. Anthony Mackie is Captain America right now – there’s other stories to tell. We ended on such a good note, so for now, I would be worried about tarnishing it," he added.

'Ghosted' will premiere on Apple TV+ on April 21, 2023.