Opening a window to the past, the Ātea Nuku Timewalk Paihia app walks users through a guided legacy trail of Paihia to learn about its history through location-based augmented reality, audio, animation, 360 video and text.

The newly launched app is a collaboration between local iwi Ngāti Rahiri, Ngāti Kawa and the Paihia Historical Legacy Society with Auckland-based creative technology studio Method.

The walking tour shares stories of early cultural encounters in Paihia and its close neighbour, Waitangi, the relationships between the missionaries, their families and mana whenua.

There are 12 significant locations within walking distance of each other that provide QR codes that users can scan, including Te Tii Waitangi Marae, the original mission village location and Manukaihuia Hill.

READ MORE:

* Māori digital tech firm ARA Journeys brings stories to life across NZ

* Augmented reality app brings Bastion Pt history to life

* Bilingual keyboard allows users to type in te reo Māori

* The infernal reo machine: Speaking my indigenous language with new AI

Two-hundred years ago, the Church Missionary Society first put down roots in Paihia. It was the place where Māori and British missionaries and settlers held significant wānanga about how they could co-exist and thrive together.

Te Tii Waitangi Marae chairperson Ngāti Kawa Taituha, who is a descendant of Te Kēmara, said the legacy trail celebrates the bond between two cultures which had been crucial to the signing of the 1835 Declaration of Independence (He Whakaputanga) and Te Tiriti o Waitangi five years later, in 1840.

Paihia Historical Legacy Society, local iwi, and Method have created a mobile app called Ātea Nuku to share stories of early cultural encounters between missionaries and mana whenua.

“The bicentennial will be commemorated in a way that enhances the mana of everyone involved,” Taituha said.

“What we can do is learn from the past to make a better future for Aotearoa, as intended through the visionary foresight of both Māori and the missionaries when Te Tiriti was drafted and signed.”

Paihia Historical Legacy Society chairperson Martin Williams said the app was a significant milestone in preserving and sharing the early history of Paihia.

“It is a testament to the hard work and dedication of everyone involved in this project,” Williams said.

Method Studio launched the first augmented reality tour in Aotearoa for Ngāti Whātua Ōrakei, showcasing Bastion Point (Takaparawhau) in Auckland and the historical significance of the site with tours in te reo Māori, English and Chinese.

Sam Ramlu, the managing and creative director of Method, said that the creation of the app had been a remarkable journey.

“The stories of Paihia are important stories for all of Aotearoa, and we’ve loved being able to turn them into a beautiful, engaging and educational digital experience.”

The app is available for download from Google Play or the App Store.