With a helping of hospitality and deeply-rooted history in the community, Olympia Restaurant has become a mainstay of Lindsay's downtown core.

“We are that restaurant for everybody,” says Nicki Dedes, who owns the restaurant with her husband, Costas.

“It has always been a hub; Olympia has always been that meeting place for everything from political rallies to baby showers and everything in between.”

Keeping authenticity, integrity and warmth at the core of their business values has helped the Olympia evolve alongside the community, says Nicki, adding she and is humbled and honoured to carry on a business so steeped with history in the community and the lives of those who live here, some of whom have been patrons for generations.

The Olympia's rich history dates back to 1906 when the business, then called Olympia Candyworks, was owned by Tony Bakogeorge, who produced ice cream, syrups and sauces, candies, and chocolates.

“He had created a masterpiece of a destination,” Nicki says of the beginnings of the business.

By the Second World War, ownership passed to Chris Tozios, who took it in a wholesale direction, selling ice cream and chocolates to restaurants and hotels in the GTA, operating the business with his wife, known affectionately as Ma Tozios.

In 1980, Nicki’s parents Chris and Cathe Karkabasis bought the Olympia, put in a full-service kitchen and lovingly turned it into the restaurant it is known as today.

Nicki married Costas in 1995 and she says he has been her partner in every way, including with the business she took over from her parents, ever since.

“An honest good plate of food is never out of vogue, authentic hospitality is never out of fashion and that’s what we’ve been offering all this time is the consistency of what people have grown to expect from the Olympia.”

The pair have gone with the inevitable ebbs and flows of life and business and have come up against challenges like everyone else, not the least of which the havoc COVID-19, but never doubt what they are doing, tenaciously striving for as near-perfection is possible for their customers and reminding themselves that they are only as good as the last plate they put out.

“We’re offering an experience. We have the history, we have the location, which was a great location because it’s been there for more than 115 years and have always been involved, our families have been involved in serving our community,” says Nicki, noting that she has taken pleasure in working with the Boys and Girls Club, the Lindsay BIA, and any other committee or group aimed at keeping the downtown, “relevant and thriving,” over the years.

Nicki says she learned her commitment to community from her father, who served as a councillor for 18 years and has been a role model to her throughout her life.

“Whether it was a plate of food or a sponsorship or involvement in events,” he was always involved in helping the community grow and improve, she says proudly.

Watching her father conduct himself growing up showed Nicki how rich the community is with people who want to give back.

“It was a delightful surprise, Nicki says of the induction, adding she is honoured to join the Hall of Fame with so many other respected, long-standing businesses that she has patronized and grown alongside over the years.

Joining the Dedes in the Kawartha Lakes Junior Achievement Business Hall of Fame is Tania-Joy Bartlett of New Beginnings Contracting Services, Jim Bogar (posthumously) from Cameron Steel, Jack and Ila Crowe (posthumously) from Kawartha Dairy, Liz Grimes from Cathy Allan Ladieswear, Ted Smith from TS Manufacturing, Jeff Strybosch from Kawartha Wholesale Bakery and Jason and Karissa Ward from Ward Lawyers Professional Corporation.

The induction ceremony will take place at MacKey Celebrations Inc. downtown Lindsay