This 5 acre field lies at the heart of Schumacher College providing fresh, organically grown fruit, vegetables and flowers for our learning community and the wider estate. It is also our most abundant and diverse outdoor classroom providing students and visitors alike with a beautiful, biodiverse and educational space to study.

Named for physicist Henri Bortoft who taught postgraduate classes at Schumacher College, the field is an exemplar of a radical alternative to the conventional farming system.

Designed and nurtured by the team that run our Practical Residency in Agroecology, the field was taken on by the College in 2015. Previously grazing pasture for a herd of dairy cows, the land was given a Permaculture redesign by then Head Gardener Jane Gleeson. Native hedgerows were soon planted for windbreak, habitat creation and pollinators. Apple, plum and cherry trees were planted in alleys in-between annual vegetable beds in the agroforestry technique. Sweet chestnuts, hazels and willow coppices were planted. The initial trees and hedges of a forest garden were laid out, and a circular flower garden design began to form.

Now, years later, much of this initial eco-infrastructure is coming to maturity, with an abundance of fruits, nuts, vegetables and wood being harvested from the field.

Insects, birds and animals have also been thriving since the field was transformed. With two wildlife ponds and a wide variety of different habitats, plant species and food sources, we have noticed an increase in biodiversity. Regular visitors to Henri’s Field include kestrels, buzzards, owls, a resident heron (called Harry), grass snakes, toads, newts, frogs, mice, voles, moles, foxes, many types of songbirds, wood pigeons, hedgehogs, bees, butterflies, moths, spiders, grasshoppers and more!

What can be found in the field?

A wide range of annual vegetables, salads, grains, fibre and food crops growing seasonally in minimum tillage market garden beds.

Organic and ecologically sustainable agriculture techniques such as intercropping, crop rotation and companion planting.

Examples of agroforestry techniques including silvopasture chicken run, silvoarable alley cropping with fruit trees and currant bushes, an edible food forest and edible hedgerows.

Photo credit: Sam Chevallier

Apple, plum and cherry tree rows planted in agroforestry alleys between annual vegetable beds with a wide range of benefits including:

– increasing biodiversity

– accessing a greater range of nutrients via deep tree roots mining the soil to deeper depths

– increased yield in a given area due to farming crops at ground and canopy level simultaneously

– flowers and fruit encourage beneficial insects and birds who prey on pest insects

– improved soil health as banks of perennials in-between annual beds can keep a reserve of mycorrhizal fungi and healthy

– soil life constant, even when the soil in annual beds is being regularly disturbed through cultivation. Allowing essential

– mineral and nutrient exchange between soil life and plants.

Forest Garden featuring a wide variety of unusual edible perennials ranging from fruit, nuts, tubers, leaves, vegetables and flowers.

Seed Saving Plot where students grow a range of vegetables, grains and flowers for a harvestable seed crop. An important part of our fight for greater seed sovereignty and self-sufficiency.

Craft & Cut Flower Garden with annual and perennial flowers, plants for natural dyeing and crafting materials like basketry willow.

Polytunnels for covered cropping of Mediterranean veg such as tomatoes, chillies and aubergines. Also a space that keeps us self-sufficient in fresh greens and salads through the winter months. We use the polytunnels to experiment with fun heat loving crops like cape gooseberry, luffa and even cotton!

Our own nestled business The Mother Tree, a fruit, nut and forest garden tree nursery specialising in heritage apple varieties.

Natural bee hives for wild bee colonies and pollination benefits, not for honey harvest.

Coppices of hazel, biomass willow and basketry willow. Mostly for chipping up and using to enhance our on-farm fertility via the ramial woodchip technique.

Experimental grain and fibre crops. We grow a yearly crop of flax for fibre processing into linen, a small amount of YQ population wheat, and grains exploring global food systems and different food cultures such as amaranth for quinoa.

Green manures for on-farm fertility. We include several uses of cover crops or “green manures” in our system to build soil health and reduce our need to bring in compost or manure from outside of our system.

Hedges for foraging, windbreak and stock-proofing. Our hedges include native mixes of trees, shrubs, hedge plants and fruiting species such as cherry plum and heritage apple trees. Our hedges are laid when mature enough in a traditional way that restores the hedgerow and keeps it healthy for years to come.

Our apple trees provide a bounty of apples which we press each autumn into juice. We host a community event celebrating all things apple and showcasing our heritage varieties grown in the field.

Photo credit: Josh Pratt

Space for celebration, ritual and ceremony. We dedicate time in our busy gardening schedules to pay tribute to nature and the bounty of food produced in Henri’s Field. Our favourite event of the year is Harvest Festival when the students of the Practical Residency in Agroecology (or The Growers as we fondly know them) harvest, cook and serve a delicious meal all from produce we grow in Henri’s Field. We cook the food over open fires in the field and serve it there amongst the flowers and trees to the rest of the college. Photo credit: Josh Pratt

All students at Dartington are invited to engage with the communal effort of growing food to sustain ourselves throughout the year. There are weekly community sessions where our growers facilitate practical tasks in which everyone can get involved. Use the buttons below to explore the three main courses working most directly in the context of Henri’s Field throughout the year.

Dartington Trust is a unique place - a centre for progressive learning in arts, ecology and social justice, based on a beautiful 1200 acre campus near Totnes in Devon. Find out more about us, check out our latest events, or browse our rich collection of news, blogs and features.

More Posts by Dartington Trust >>

After 4pm film: Full Price £9 / Concessions £7.50 / Under 16 & Full Time Student £6.50.

Before 4pm film: All tickets £6.50.

BarnKids: Over 15 £6 / Under 15 £4.50 / Family ticket £20.

Special Events: All tickets £10.

Concessions: Available to over 65s, full time students, and people in receipt of Universal Credit. Please provide proof of eligibility at time of purchase, or at time of collection. Holders of Dartington Membership can also enjoy discounts on most Barn Cinema events.

Please note that if you qualify for free gardens entry via one of the below criteria, you will need to book tickets on arrival (online booking unavailable).

Families / Individuals in receipt of income support, or anyone registered disabled, partially sighted or blind (includes those receiving Universal Credit, Job Seekers Allowance, low income benefits or disability benefits. Please come to the Welcome Centre to book, and bring proof of entitlement.)

If you are:

Someone who lives, works or studies in Dartington Parish

A parent or caregiver of a child at school in Dartington Parish

An individual or family in receipt of income support

A teacher or lecturer (please purchase membership using your school/educational establishment e-mail address to qualify)

…you are entitled to a £10 concession on all our Membership packages. Just select the relevant option during the checkout process, and we will be in touch to confirm your eligibility.

We are a partner garden for Silent Space, and we invite you to take some time during your visit to sit or walk in silence – to engage more deeply with the gardens and with yourself.

As this is a managed environment, you will occasionally be aware of essential maintenance – another element of the gardens’ soundscape. Please respect the quiet time of other visitors.

Please note the following changes to our regular opening hours on Monday 19 September.

Welcome Centre: Open with reduced cover between 11am-3pm

The White Hart: Open at 5pm for normal service till finish

The Green Table

Barn Cinema Café Bar

Cider Press Centre

Dartington Trust Shop in Totnes

Box Office and Barn Cinema

Dartington Gardens

All suggested course levels are a minimum requirement to participate in the class.

Open: Accessible to all, including complete beginners. You don’t need to be able to read music or play an instrument to participate.

Intermediate: Aimed at instrumentalists or singers working to a minimum standard of grade 3 or equivalent. You need to be able to read music to take part.

Intermediate+: Aimed at experienced musicians who play to a high standard, approximately grade 6 and above.

Advanced: Specifically designed for advanced musicians pursuing a career in music but open to anyone of the right standard. There’s an application process for these courses – full details can be found here.

In the event of cancellation due to government guidance on coronavirus restrictions, the customer has the flexibility to move the booking to alternative available dates within 18 months of the start date of their holiday (the ‘flexible rebooking policy’) with no additional charges. If the customer chooses a date where the same accommodation is only available at a higher price, the additional prevailing rate for the stay will be due. The flexible rebooking policy is only available for cancellations related directly to government changes in coronavirus restrictions.

Due to the Covid-19 pandemic we have put some extra measures in place to ensure that your stay here at Camp Dartington is a safer and more pleasant break.

In the event of cancellation due to government guidance on coronavirus restrictions, the customer has the flexibility to move the booking to alternative available dates within 18 months of the start date of their holiday (the ‘flexible rebooking policy’) with no additional charges. If the customer chooses a date where the same accommodation is only available at a higher price, the additional prevailing rate for the stay will be due. The flexible rebooking policy is only available for cancellations related directly to government changes in coronavirus restrictions. Flexible rebooking is not available for cancellations related to weather or other reasons.

Plus – if required, some or all of the following safety measures can be put in place:

⇒ We have added extra toilets and showers to the site meaning that queues won’t be quite as long!

⇒ We have a member of our team on site daily to help with any enquiries.

⇒ There is a dedicated 24hr phoneline should you have any worries.

⇒ The site will be clearly marked out.

⇒ The toilets and showers will be cleaned regularly through the morning to improve contact safety.

⇒ We have marked out clear 2 metre queue lines to help when waiting for the facilities.

⇒ Pitches for tents are well spaced to ensure that you have the correct social distancing.

⇒ Sanitising stations are available across the campsite

⇒ We have a small shop that will be in operation daily for your basic camping needs.

Family Membership, One Adult: £50.00

Family Membership, One Adult (concessionary): £40.00

Family Membership, One Adult plus parking: £75.00

Family Membership, One Adult (concessionary) plus parking: £65.00

Family Membership, Two Adults: £75.00

Family Membership, Two Adults (concessionary): £65.00

Family Membership, Two Adults plus parking: £100.00

Family Membership, Two Adults (concessionary), plus parking: £90.00

If you’re looking for a more affordable accommodation option at Dartington…Does camping on a medieval estate with uninterrupted views of Haytor sound tempting?

How about relaxing on a simple, car-free campsite, where a morning dip in the beautiful River Dart is just a short walk away – or simply taking it easy and rolling out of bed for a nice hot shower?

At Camp Dartington we have this and more. Stay on our heritage site and enjoy our super chilled campsite, a calendar of exciting cultural events, our grade 2* listed gardens, our 14thC  Barn Cinema and loads of great places to eat and drink.

Click here to find out more ⇒

If you are a postgraduate student at our on-site ecological learning institution, Schumacher College, you will automatically receive free membership for each academic year you attend (2019-20 academic year onwards).

If you are enrolled, you do not need to do anything – you’ll receive your membership pack when you arrive.

Please be aware that from the 1st of May, we will be increasing our parking charges and changing our parking system to number plate recognition.

We have taken the difficult decision to raise parking charges, as part of a range of initiatives designed to raise revenue, investment and donations to Dartington. As you know, being a charity, we offer a lot here for free – not least access to the beautiful woods and gardens. A small increase in parking fees helps us keep the estate open to all and contributes to funding our wide array of projects.

From the 1st May, the new parking charges will be:

1 hour – £1.00 (free at The Shops at Dartington)

They will continue to apply only from 9am-6pm. If you visit here regularly, there is the option to become a Dartington Member and buy an annual parking permit. Find out more here (from 1 May).