I was lucky enough to meet up with a red fox one morning as he came out to do his rounds. When I first saw him he had already seen me. Foxes have exceptionally good hearing and equally good eyesight so they don’t miss much.

He was skulking through the woods doing his best not to be seen, but like him, I don’t miss much either. I got the camera on him and our eyes met briefly. The sun was peeking through the trees and lit him up nicely. Just as I clicked the shutter he licked his lips like he was thinking ahead to the nice juicy voles and mice that were waiting for him in the nearby meadow. It was like it was his invitation to me to come along for the hunt.

He weaved his way through the woods until he was at the edge of the hunting field. There was a brief interruption as he spotted a barn cat that had the same plan. It was out in the field hunting mice too. There was a short chase but the cat was never really in much danger. This was an experienced old barn cat and it headed for the nearest tree and made its getaway with time to spare. I don’t think it even used up one of its nine lives. Even if it hadn’t made it to the tree this feline looked like it might just take the fox in a battle. Luckily it did not come to that.

His duty done, the cat watched from the safety of the tree as the fox continued out into the field on the hunt for rodents. This guy was good. It did not take long at all before his muscles stiffened and he froze, all of his senses focused on one spot in the grass. His ears were tipped forward and twitched with every movement the mouse or vole made.

Next was the big leap up into the air and he came down front feet first.

Did he have a vole pinned between his paws? Of course he did! And it was a very big fat one too.

It took him a minute to gobble it down. That just seemed to whet his appetite more though.

He continued on in his search, going over the field in a grid like pattern. He had obviously done this many times before. It wasn’t  long until he froze up again, and again, and again. I watched as he caught five nice big voles in a row. The first three he ate on the spot. The next two he stashed in the grass for the future.

His gait seemed a lot more relaxed now as he continued on his rounds, which soon took him back into the woods and out of sight, no doubt to find a nice sunny spot to lay down to rest and let that large meal digest.

It made me think of the feeling one has after gorging on turkey dinner and the satisfied lazy feeling that follows. It was a pleasure to follow along on the hunt with this beautiful red fox and I thanked him for the lessons as we both went on our merry way.

Dave Ellis is an Omemee-area wildlife photographer. If you see interesting wildlife or have questions about his pictures, please email Dave at wildlife@eastlink.ca. To see more of his photographs, visit flickr.com/photos/ourlocalwildlife.