Taipei, April 19 (CNA) The Hon Hai-invested U. S.-based electric pick-up brand Lordstown Motors Corp. said overnight that production and deliveries of its Endurance pickup trucks have resumed after a pause in late February.

Lordstown-headquartered in the Youngstown, Ohio suburb of the same name -- paused production of the Endurance on Feb. 23 to address what it described as "performance and quality issues with certain components."

The automaker also voluntarily recalled 19 of the 31 vehicles it had produced up to January 2023 -- only six of which had been delivered to customers -- to address a "specific electrical connection issue that could result in a loss of propulsion while driving."

In May 2022, Hon Hai, also known as Foxconn globally, paid US$230 million to buy Lordstown's Ohio factory from the automaker.

Lordstown was under investigation by the U. S. Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) at the time of the sale and had declared that it did not have the funds to begin commercial production.

Hon Hai subsequently announced its intention to make Ohio its first electric vehicle manufacturing hub in the U. S. market, saying it planned to produce 500,000 to 600,000 vehicles annually at the Lordstown factory.

Hon Hai also spent an US$100 million to purchase the automaker's Series A preferred shares, to leave it holding all of Lordstown's outstanding preferred stock and 18.3 percent of its common stock.

In the statement, Lordstown said it had entered an agreement with Amerit Fleet Solutions, an American provider of customized fleet maintenance and repair programs nationwide, to provide service and maintenance to Lordstown's commercial fleet customers.

Under the agreement, Lordstown and Amerit will jointly provide electric vehicle service and warranty for the Lordstown Endurance in key states allowed by law, as well as future vehicles developed by Lordstown in collaboration with the Foxconn electric vehicle ecosystem.

Amerit is executing plans for the strategic rollout of service locations aligned with Lordstown's launch plan for initial fleet customers, the electric pickup truck supplier said, adding before the launch of services, Amerit service technicians will complete an extensive safety training program as well as Lordstown's training curriculum for the Endurance and other future vehicles.

Meanwhile, the first batch of five electric driver-optional Monarch MK-V tractors rolled off Hon Hai's Ohio production lines in early April.

In recent years, Hon Hai has intensified its efforts to develop electric vehicles in an attempt to diversify its product portfolio and transform itself from a pure contract electronics maker.