Furious villagers have slammed the council for installing the 'smoothest speed bumps in England' in their quaint neighbourhood - creating a haven for boy racers.

Locals living in Thornton, Middlesbrough, were plagued by dangerous drivers and potholes for years before the council resurfaced the road.

However, villagers now claim the 'tiny' bumps installed are a waste of money and do nothing to stop motorists from racing past their homes.

They claim the problem has actually worsened since the potholes have been filled in, and that some vehicles bolt along at 70mph despite the 20mph speed limit.

Dan Dare, 57, believes someone will end up dead as a result of the dangerous road.

The business owner said: 'The council do nothing. They haven't kept up to date with cars and vehicles being wider.

'I was told they have to protect the residents from the noise these bumps create. They don't create anything, they don't even create a bump.

'I've been on this road walking my dog and I've seen cars come up here at 70mph, easily 70mph.

'The road is great, although the potholes did help with traffic calming.

Mr Dare added: 'It's been the talk of the village. There's so much red tape and there's no need for it because that red tape is going to cost someone's life.

'My principle concern is safety. Somebody is going to get killed, I know they are.'

At 8.48am on Good Friday, a reporter witnessed a white pick up truck bombing over a speed bump without slowing down.

Less than five minutes later, a Ford Fiesta sped over a bump with no difficulty, in dangerous proximity to a jogger.

Both vehicles appeared to be speeding, with the white truck travelling at around 40mph, despite a speed limit of just 20mph.

Consultant and local Vince Robinson, 74, said: 'What a horrendous waste of money. Now the council are going to have to spend more money to come and re-do them.

'The 20mph speed limit is a joke, it isn't policed. I've seen people go 40-50mph down here.

'It's dangerous, not just to pedestrians but to the horses and riders that travel along here as there are stables nearby.

He added: 'There wasn't a great deal of thought that went into them. A lot of vehicles can go over them with no issues.

'All you hear from the council is "we can't do this" and "we can't do that". They're worried about making more noise for residents if they raise the height of them.

Tony Armitage, 74, a retired engineering manager said: 'I thought the bumps weren't high enough. Cars fly through here. I can go over the speed bumps without a problem.

'Even going across the bumps it's very gentle. It's not stopping the speeder. I think it's possibly to do with today's vehicles.

'They can go across and they don't have any effect whatsoever. Some of the larger wagons that come through here don't attempt to slow down.

'Some people go through at 60mph, they don't care.

'It is worrying because kids being kids will run into the road and there's a lot of old people about in the village who are using the walkways.

'The road is reasonably narrow and I feel quite often if I'm walking down here and a wagon comes down I move out of their way because of the wing mirrors.

'Some of them are not watching what they are doing.'

Bryan Weightman, 52, a business owner, said: 'It's made no difference whatsoever.

'Certain cars can straddle them and go over with ease. They make no attempt to slow down, stop or stick to the speed limit.

'All this has done is made it more like a racing surface because the pot holes used to stop them but now it's so smooth vehicles can glide through at whatever speed they want.

'They fly through here, it's mental.'

Another resident added: 'I've seen people speeding down this road at 70mph. It's dangerous. I'm worried about crossing the road and walking around because of the fast cars.

'The speed bumps don't do anything. It's a quaint village but now it's filled with boy racers who use it as a shortcut.

'We asked for speed bumps and for something to be done but it makes no difference.

'People's wheels go either side of them and they don't even have to brake.'