Take Action                       Volunteer With Us                Add Your Voice                Join a Research Project                Attend an Event                       Food Safety                Car Safety & Efficiency                Data Privacy                Financial Fairness                                    We don’t recognize that sign in.

Your username maybe be your email address. Passwords are 6-20 characters with at least one number and letter.   We still don’t recognize that sign in.

Retrieve your username.

Reset your password.

Please call Member Services at

1-800-333-0663                                        Save products you love, products you own and much more!          Sign In                      Exclusive Deals for Members                 Best Time to Buy Products                 Recall & Safety Alerts                 TV Screen Optimizer

Best and Worst Places to Get Glasses Online and In Person

CR’s new survey results can help you find the right eyewear retailer for you

If you’re one of the 166.5 million adults in the U. S. who wear prescription eyeglasses, your specs are likely your constant companion, and one of the first things you reach for when you wake up each morning. So you want to be sure they help you see better, look good, are comfortable, and hold up to daily use.

That’s a lot to ask for, so Consumer Reports set out to determine which in-person and online glasses stores deliver the goods.

Our fall 2022 survey collected responses from more than 11,450 CR members about their prescription eyeglass purchases within the previous 24 months. Respondents provided feedback on the retailers they used to purchase their glasses, answering questions about the quality of products, price, customer service, care taken to fit glasses, follow-up service, store policies, selection, and more.

To be included in our ratings, a retailer had to have been rated by at least 50 respondents, and only responses from people who bought their frames and lenses at the same retailer were included in the retailers’ scores. We’ve provided full ratings on 18 retailers, available to CR members here.  And whether you’re a member or not, CR’s eyeglass store buying guide offers useful suggestions.

Here, some of our top findings to help you find the best eyewear stores for your needs.

Become a member to read the full article and get access to digital ratings.

We investigate, research, and test so you can choose with confidence.

Yes, send me a copy of this email.

We respect your privacy.                 All email addresses you provide will be used just for sending this story.

Oops, we messed up. Try again later

You Might Also Like...