Pop-up Music Festival: 6.30pm on Friday at St Mary’s Church, Geraldine, Cafe Latte Orchestra, and 2.30pm on Saturday, Vintage Trio – entry to each performance by gold coin donation.

Gypsy Fair: 9am to 5pm both days, at the Caroline Bay Loop, funky stalls and cool vehicles.

The Amazing Dinosaur Discovery: 11am to 12.30pm and 1pm to 2.30pm both days, and 3pm to 4.30pm on Saturday, an interactive dinosaur walk with more than 30 lifelike creatures. Book at DinosaurDiscovery.co.nz.

Popcorn: 7.30pm on Saturday, opening night, red carpet, limos and all the glitz, 5pm on Sunday at the Playhouse, then Tuesday to Saturday, play by Ben Elton, directed by TJ Ramsay, a South Canterbury Drama League Little Theatre production. Tickets at iticket.co.nz.

Pleasant Point Farmers Market: 9am to 12pm at the centre car park, Main Rd, seasonal fresh food and produce, plants, arts and crafts. Held rain or shine.

John Kelman Exhibition: Until April 27. See this exhibition of well-known Timaru artist John Kelman. York Street Gallery of Fine Art – open Friday and Saturday 11am-3pm and by appointment.

Temuka Community Market: 10am to 1pm on Saturday at the town square, crafts, plants and a community stall selling fresh homegrown vegetables and more.

Timaru Artisan Farmers’ Market: 9am to 12.30pm, on Saturday at 2 George St. A range of stalls including arts, crafts and plants.

Geraldine Farmers’ Market: 9am to noon on Saturday at the St Mary’s Church carpark, Talbot St.

Waimate Community Market: 9am to 12 noon on Saturday at Seddon Sq in Waimate.

South Canterbury Museum: 1pm to 4.30pm, Saturday and Sunday with free admission. Two floors of exhibitions relating to local nature, history and culture.

South Canterbury Genealogy Society: 1.30 to 3.30pm, every Sunday at the South Canterbury Museum. Members will be at the museum to assist other people with their family history queries.

Geraldine Craft and Produce Market: 8.30am to 3.30pm every Saturday, Sunday and public holiday in Cox St.

To feature in The Timaru Herald’s Weekend Pass email your event details to: editor@timaruherald.co.nz.