Click here to become a Premium member of Jobzilla and gain exclusive access to international jobs that will sponsor your visa abroad.

Jobs

Airtel Nigeria (Airtel Networks Limited) is a leading telecommunications services provider in Nigeria headquartered in Lagos, the commercial nerve-centre of Nigeria. The telco ranks amongst the top four mobile service providers in terms of subscribers with a customer base of more than 39.8 million. The company's product offerings include 2G, 3G and 4G wireless services, mobile commerce and enterprise services.

We are recruiting to fill the position below:

Provide management with information relevant to aid decision making aimed at Operational expenses efficiency.

Liaise with all other Airtel Opcos for transactions closure.

Ensure an up-to-date reconciliation of all intercompany balance.

Timely and accurate submission of all HQ required reports.

Ensure that HQ accounting guidelines and process are being complied with no deviation.

Perform monthly revaluation of all foreign denominated balance and reconciled the forex revaluation to MAPA

Ensure monthly closure of financials through upload of trial balance into Hyperion Financial Management application.

Co-ordinate submission of all AGs Alignment and DTR schedules within Group timeline

Liaise with all other units within the Directorates for any variances noted during trial balance review for month end closure.

Ensure annual financial statements are prepared in line with current International Accounting Standards.

Co-ordinate all stakeholder within the business for timeline completion of annual financial statements

Facilitate smooth running of all audit exercise within Financial Reporting directorate.

Act as a link between Nigeria Financial Reporting team and Group Financial Reporting team

Ensure all prompt response to all HQ queries.

Coordinate the activities of Airtel Money and TowerCo

Interested candidates must have:

Adept user of Accounting Packages; Oracle ERP and Hyperion Financial Management (HFM)

How to Apply

Interested and qualified candidates should:

Click here to apply

Due to the high volume of applications, we are unable to notify unsuccessful applicants. If you have not been notified of the outcome of your application within two weeks of the closing date, please assume you have not been successful on this occasion

Airtel is an Equal Opportunity Employer and is non-discriminatory on the basis of race, gender, disability, ethnic grouping

Click here to become a Premium member of Jobzilla and gain exclusive access to international jobs that will sponsor your visa abroad.

Do you need help applying for a job or other opportunities?

Our seasoned professionals will help you fill and complete difficult applications, create outstanding CVs/Cover letters or other documents that will win you interview invitations!

Vacancies at the Nigerian College of Forensics and Fraud Investigators