We've detected you are on Internet Explorer. For the best Barrons.com experience, please update to a modern browser.

We've detected you are on Internet Explorer. For the best Barrons.com experience, please update to a modern browser.

This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. To order presentation-ready copies for distribution to your colleagues, clients or customers visit http://www.djreprints.com.

House Speaker Kevin McCarthy is showing no signs of backing down from his demand that the raising of the debt ceiling be conditioned on deep public spending cuts.

About the author: Desmond Lachman is a senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute. He was previously a deputy director in the International Monetary Fund’s Policy Development and Review Department and the chief emerging market economic strategist at Salomon Smith Barney.

The summer months, when many traders are at the beach, haven’t historically been a good time for the global economy. Perhaps it is with good reason that investors are advised according to the old adage to sell in May and go away.

The dog days of August and September have seen crises strike on too many occasions. That is when the 2008-2009 Great Economic recession began in the aftermath of the Lehman bankruptcy. This time of year also saw the beginning of the 1982 Latin American debt crisis, the U. K.’s 1992 Black Wednesday that triggered the European Exchange Rate Mechanism) crisis, and the 1998 Russian debt default that set off the Long-Term Capital Management crisis. Unfortunately, today, there are all too many indications that this summer could be again one of very rough sledding for the global economy and world financial markets. Among the more compelling reasons for fearing another hot economic summer is the prospect of a bruising U.S. debt ceiling battle when that ceiling is breached sometime in August or September. The Silicon Valley Bank and Credit Suisse failures have heightened the chances of a rolling U.S. regional bank crisis. This is hardly the time to allow serious questions to arise about the credibility of U.S. government debt.  Yet, there is every prospect that we will have a debt ceiling showdown at least on the scale of that which shook financial markets in 2011. House Speaker Kevin McCarthy, who gained office only with the reluctant agreement of the more extreme wing of the Republican Party, is showing no signs of backing down from his demand that the raising of the debt ceiling be conditioned on deep public spending cuts. For his part, President Biden sees no reason to negotiate since Congress has already approved the spending that McCarthy wants to cut. In his view, the debt ceiling should be raised with no strings attached as has been done on many previous occasions. This is not to say that the U.S. will default on its debt this summer. However, it is likely that a debt ceiling compromise will be reached only in the context of some sort of financial market crisis. In 2008, following the Lehman bankruptcy, Congress approved the Troubled Assets Relief Program only after a first vote failed and markets collapsed. This summer, markets will fret whether this time will be different and we will go into the debt ceiling abyss. Another reason to fear a hot economic summer is that this is likely to be the time when the full impact of monetary policy and credit market tightening will take effect. Late summer willmark eighteen months since the Federal Reserve started its most aggressive interest rate hiking cycle in the last 40 years. Meanwhile, the credit crunch triggered by the Silicon Valley Bank failure will have gained momentum. This could very well tip the U.S. into recession, putting further pressure on the cracks already visible in world credit markets. The likelihood of an accident in the so-called shadow banking system will also raise the economic temperature. These shadow banks, which include the hedge funds, equity funds, insurance companies and pension funds, now intermediate more credit than the traditional banking system. They are also known to be both lightly regulated and highly leveraged. Never before has the world been as indebted as it is today, and never before has such a large amount of lending been done at unusually low interest rates. As the International Monetary Fund has warned in its latest Global Financial Stability Report, “historically, forceful rate increases by central banks are often followed by stresses that expose fault lines in the financial system.” All of this suggests that at its policy meeting next month, the Fed would be ill-advised to raise interest rates again and thereby risk exacerbating the financial market stresses that are in plain sight. Rather, the Fed would be well advised to prepare contingency plans for what is all too likely to be a very hot economic and financial market summer. Guest commentaries like this one are written by authors outside the Barron’s and MarketWatch newsroom. They reflect the perspective and opinions of the authors. Submit commentary proposals and other feedback to ideas@barrons.com.

An error has occurred, please try again later.

This article has been sent to