OTTAWA - The federal Conservatives’ top Quebec Tory says the party’s concerns about the CBC do not apply to the broadcaster’s French-language wing, but one of its senators suggests there is a need to look at it mandate.

Quebec Sen. Pierre-Hugues Boisvenu told reporters on his way into the party’s weekly caucus meeting that Radio-Canada’s mandate should be re-centred to its core mission.

“We’ve always said there was a form of competition that wasn’t healthy between the private sector and Radio-Canada since it is funded at a significant level,” Boisvenu said in French on Wednesday, adding this was the party’s policy even before the era of former prime minister Stephen Harper.

“The Conservative party has always said that we want to recentre the role of Radio-Canada in its core role, which is education, which is information, which is having a presence in the regions,” he said, instead of competing with other broadcasters on content such as variety shows.

The Conservatives’ position to cut the roughly $1 billion CBC receives in annual funding is in the spotlight after its leader, Pierre Poilievre, asked Twitter to add the label of “government-funded media” to its main account, which the social-media giant did late Sunday.

Poilievre did not ask company to do the same for Radio-Canada, the broadcaster’s French-language programming wing.

He has said in past media interviews that he sees value in offering services to francophone communities, particularly in regions where they are linguistic minorities, which would be areas outside of Quebec.

Pierre Paul-Hus, his lieutenant for the French-majority province, told reporters Tuesday that the next step is to see how to manage Radio-Canada’s programming separately.

Paul-Hus, also speaking in French, called Radio-Canada an essential service in Quebec as well as to francophones outside the province, saying CBC’s English services are the main target of the party’s criticism.

“It doesn’t at all touch Radio-Canada. These are two different things,” he said.

Boisvenu echoed some of Paul-Hus’s comments Wednesday, saying that he believes that services to francophone communities outside Quebec are important and could be beefed up.

This report by The Canadian Press was first published April 19, 2023.