Seth Lugo was already at 92 pitches when a 1-2 fastball with two outs in the fourth ran up and in on Jesse Winker, plunking the Brewers’ designated hitter above his elbow. The errant pitch forced in the game-tying run and fetched Padres manager Bob Melvin from the dugout much earlier than he would have liked.

Michael Wacha could not complete five innings on Friday. Nick Martinez finished six on Thursday, but the bullpen covered four innings in both of Blake Snell’s and Ryan Weathers’ starts on Wednesday and Tuesday, respectively.

A six-man rotation was vital in helping the Padres’ starters and bullpen remain strong deep into the postseason.

But what’s transpired so far this season is not what it looked like last year.

“It’s tough, it’s tough,” Melvin said. “We have to try to press through it right now. Hopefully Joe (Musgrove) comes back. We get some off-days coming up. It doesn’t help, (24 games in 25 days) to start the season. You have a short bullpen. It’s tough to navigate. Hopefully get some off-days that refresh us a little bit, therefore we’re not as taxed.”

The Padres’ next off-day is April 25. They get another on April 28, then five days off in May, and Melvin has pointed out that a six-man rotation will be more challenging for starting pitchers to stay on routine when off-days arrive more frequently.

Much sooner, Musgrove is throwing perhaps his final rehab start Sunday for low Single-A Lake Elsinore. If all goes well, he could rejoin the rotation over the weekend in Phoenix, forcing perhaps young Weathers to the bullpen or to Triple-A El Paso to continue starting.

Once days off arrive more often, the Padres may have to take a long look at both Martinez and Lugo moving to the ‘pen, both of whom have contractual incentives to start and relieve games this year.

Lugo last threw 100 innings in a big-league season in 2018. Martinez topped 106 innings last year, most of them in the bullpen after beginning the season in the Padres’ rotation.

* Wayne Robinson, nephew of Jackie Robinson, threw out the first pitch to Trent Grisham as part of the Padres’ Jackie Robinson Day celebration. All teams players and on-field staff across all games wear No. 42 every year on April 15 to mark the day Jackie Robinson broke MLB’s color barrier in 1947. Grisham was also part of a “Breaking Barriers” forum on Friday in front of 200 students at San Diego High School. Also participating: Billy Bean, MLB senior vice president and special assistant to the commissioner; Miles McPherson, former NFL defensive back and pastor of The Rock church; and Captain Amy Bauernschmidt, the first female commander of a U.S. aircraft carrier.

* OF Adam Engel (hamstring) began a rehab assignment with Triple-A El Paso on Saturday, hitting second behind RF Fernando Tatis Jr. Tatis will play with El Paso through Sunday, rejoin the Padres on Monday and could play in a game at low Single-A Lake Elsinore on Tuesday.