Kris Jenner and Corey Gamble soaked up the sun together while on vacation in Cabo, Mexico on Tuesday.

The longtime December/May couple – Kris is 67 while Corey is 43 – spent quality time during the coastal getaway.

Kris – who wished firstborn Kourtney Kardashian a happy birthday online on Tuesday – was clad in a plunging sheer black cover-up.

The fashionista, who is the matriarch of the Kardashian/Jenner empire, showed off a one-piece black swimsuit underneath.

She protected herself from the strong sun rays with a pair of black sunglasses and a wide-brimmed gray hat.

Holiday: Kris Jenner and Corey Gamble soaked up the sun together on vacation in Cabo, Mexico on Tuesday

Sexy: Kris was clad in a plunging sheer black cover-up that revealed a bathing suit underneath

For his part, Corey kept cool as he went shirtless and donned a cream bucket hat with a red interior.

The businessman, who met Jenner in 2014, also donned a pair of dark sunglasses during the retreat.

Gamble was spotted at some points with a multicolor towel wrapped around his lower body as he moved in and out of the couple’s villa.

Kris and Corey have no plans to walk down the aisle, despite their ongoing romance.

It was reported that the talent manager, who presides over her six children’s careers, believes that things ‘would not end well’ if they divorced.

On Valentine’s Day, Kris sparked serious engagement rumors when she shared a photo on her Instagram Stories wearing a massive diamond ring on her wedding finger.

In the image her hand was placed gently on top of the tour manager’s hand.

A source told DailyMail.com it was ‘definitely’ not an engagement ring – adding that Kris ‘has had that ring for three years and has worn it out countless times.’

Towel: Corey covered up with a multicolor towel as he moved in and out of their villa

Looking good: The fashionista, who is the matriarch of the Kardashian/Jenner empire, showed off a one-piece black swimsuit underneath

And a separate source added, ‘Kris is not engaged to Corey, and she has no plans to be.

‘She really has no need to marry him because she has exactly what she wants with him right now.’

‘Kris does not want to put anything on paper regarding their relationship because she knows that, if their relationship does end, God forbid, it would not end well if they were married,’ the second source told DailyMail.com.

Corey and Kris have been together since 2015 and the tour manager has since become a close-knit member of the momager’s family, making regular appearances on the clan’s reality shows – and forming close bonds with Kris’ six children and her grandchildren.

Back in 2018, as a guest on divorce attorney Laura Wasser’s podcast, Divorce Sucks with Laura Wasser, Kris said that she will likely never marry Corey.

‘You know, you never say never, but I often say it’s just not what I think I need to do again based on my past,’ she told Laura, who is known for handling high-profile celebrity divorces, including several of the Kardashian family splits.

‘I’m in a really great relationship right now, and I’m happy and I don’t want to mess that up,’ she added.

Nine years later, Corey stars alongside Kris on her family’s new Hulu show, The Kardashians.

Accessories: Jenner protected herself from the strong sun rays with a pair of black sunglasses and a wide-brimmed gray hat

Communication: The busy businesswoman kept her phone close as she soaked up the sun

Corey took a dip in a cool pool as he enjoyed the company of two friends

Jenner was active on social media on Tuesday as she wished Kourtney a happy 43rd birthday.

The beauty is married to Travis Barker and shares three children – Mason, Penelope and Reign – with her ex partner, Scott Disick.

Rare flashback images were shared showing the eldest Kardashian child as a little girl.

‘Happy Birthday to my beautiful first born child @kourtneykardash!!!’ Kris wrote, adding, ‘It truly feels like yesterday that you were born.’