Olivia Wilde was spotted looking trim and stylish as she left her Los Angeles gym on Tuesday.

The 39-year-old filmmaker - who recently hugged it out with ex Jason Sudeikis - sported a red sports bra and leggings co-ord that featured white trim and stripes.

The Don't Worry Darling director left her tresses loose, letting them blow in the breeze in an undefined side part.

The mother-of-two, who shares son Otis, 8, and daughter Daisy, 6, with Sudeikis, went makeup-free under black sunglasses.

Olivia carried her belongings in a large tan leather bag that she slung over her shoulder.

Wilde, who frequents Tracy Anderson's fitness studio, sported glossy red nail polish as she carried a bottle of boxed water.

Her cute gym outfit was punctuated by a pair of stark white sneakers she wore with white ankle socks.

After getting in a good workout, the star switched into an all-white ensemble to run errands.

She sported an oversized white tee and pants and toted a large brown leather bag on her shoulder.

One day earlier the Hollywood fixture was seen leaving the workout facility in the same look, but in black and white.

She left the gym visibly sweaty as she pulled her locks into a high ponytail and carried a black water bottle.

The location is notably the same place her ex-boyfriend Harry Styles chooses to exercise.

On Monday the two narrowly avoided running into each other as they spent time at the celeb-loved spot.

Harry and Olivia broke up last year November after nearly two years of dating. They went their separate ways after they found they had 'different priorities that are keeping them apart.'

Olivia was last seen supporting Harry when she attended his November 15 concert at LA's Kia Forum, where she was accompanied by her two children.

At the time, it was claimed that Olivia was 'disappointed' that her relationship with Harry did not work out.

The pop superstar has since moved on with Emily Ratajkowski, 31, and they were recently spotted engaging in a public make-out session in Tokyo.

Earlier this year a source revealed to Entertainment Tonight that Olivia has been prioritizing her children since the breakup.

'Olivia has been focusing all her energy on her kids and family since her split with Harry,' the insider said. 'And now that they're broken up, it's been easier for Jason and Olivia to get along.'

They added: 'Jason has been trying to be supportive of Olivia and a good co-parent during this transition. Things between Jason and Olivia are cordial and going well.

'Things between Olivia and Jason are manageable and she's doing her best to co-parent with him in a healthy way,' the source said. 'She isn't rushing to date anyone again right now.'

The source also revealed that Olivia is 'still pretty hurt' from her split from Harry last fall but the singer 'isn't too broken up.'

Last weekend Wilde was seen hugging Jason as they reunited to cheer on their son, Otis, at his soccer match.

The House alum recently claimed the Ted Lasso actor, 47, doesn't help with child support amid their ongoing custody battle.

The former couple, who officially split in November 2020 after nine years together, greeted each other with a friendly embrace on the sidelines of the soccer field.

As for her professional life, Olivia will next direct and executive produce the adaptation of two novels for A24.