The 74 key hotel will be the first Mercure brand in Moldova and should be ready to receive guests by the end of this year.

Mercure Chișinău will be the result of renovations to the existing Jazz Hotel Chișinău. The hotel will feature an a-la-carte restaurant and a lively bar. Meeting and event provision will encompass three versatile conference rooms and a business corner.

For wellness, a gym and sauna area will be onsite, plus the site will offer outdoor car parking for guests’ convenience.

Moldova’s capital Chișinău is located in the centre of the country, along the Bâc River. It is the most developed area in the eastern European nation and about a third of the country’s population lives in the surrounding metropolitan region.

The new Mercure hotel project is located in the heart of Chisinau, on 72 Vlaicu Pîrcălab Street, in an area with both tourism and business attractions.

Maria Drăgulin, Accor development director for Romania, Bulgaria, Moldova and the Czech Republic, said: “We are thrilled to announce the opening of a new Mercure hotel in the beautiful city of Chisinau, the heart of the Republic of Moldova. Accor’s decision to open a new hotel here is a testimony to our passion for promoting tourism and introducing the world to this region of Europe. By bringing Chisinau to the attention of Accor’s international travellers, we are opening new opportunities for guests to experience the city’s unique culture and charm.

“Our commitment is to deliver the same high standards of service and comfort that Accor is known for and are confident that the new destination will leave guests with unforgettable memories. In bringing the new Mercure hotel to Chisinau, we are honoured to be collaborating with a well-respected local developer, who has already made a significant impact on the city.”

Virginia Chiorescu, representative of Coriap SRL added: “The hospitality industry is more than a business today. It is a vocation that requires a firm commitment to care for, delight, and surprise every traveller. To take them on an emotional journey, from the moment they take their first steps into your property. It is a well-balanced mix of passion and service excellence.

“We have the passion and the ambition to honour our city’s cultural heritage and show it to the world. Accor has the operational know-how and the key to a rich and complex network of distribution and loyalty channels that make our property visible and tell the story of our destination. We are confident in the future of our partnership and we look forward to bringing our new hotel to the market.”

Mercure has an international network of more than 900 hotels in over 60 countries. Each Mercure hotel is rooted in local culture and is complimented by generous hospitality and a commitment to offering high-quality standards.

In eastern Europe, the brand will be appearing in Kosovo, thanks to the newbuild 115-key Mercure Minimax Pristina; as well as several sites set for Romania, including Mercure Bucharest Cantemir, a 40-room hotel planned to open in Q4 this year, plus Mercure Bacau, scheduled to add 80 keys to the portfolio in 2025.