Conor Benn has been provisionally suspended by UK Anti-Doping over his two positive drugs tests.

Sources have told Mail Sport the fighter was notified by UKAD last month and, significantly, we can reveal he is now co-operating with their investigation.

That includes a recent U-turn on his decision to withhold the same dossier of evidence he supplied to a separate probe by the World Boxing Council in February.

However, despite being unable to fight in this country pending the outcome of UKAD’s enquiries, Benn, who faces a potential two-year ban if found guilty, is still hoping to fight abroad in a move that could have serious ramifications for British Boxing Board of Control licence holders, including Benn, his promoter Eddie Hearn and his opponent.

Under UKAD rules, which are followed by the Board of Control, those parties could ultimately lose their Board licence if they proceed with those astonishing plans, with a mooted June 3 outing, possibly in Abu Dhabi.

Mail Sport understands there is confidence on Benn’s side that they can push forward, but it remains to be seen whether any foreign sanctioning body would be willing to exploit any jurisdictional vagaries by staging such a contentious fight in these latest circumstances.

In response to news of his provisional suspension, Benn pointed to Amir Khan’s recent doping ban, which only came to light 14 months after a positive test.

Benn wrote on Twitter: ‘I can't comment on anything to do with UKAD other than to say that I am in touch with them. Someone at the BBBoC or UKAD obviously wanted to create a headline unlike the Khan case where it was kept quiet for 14 months but this is nothing new. I remain free to fight outside the UK.’

He added: ‘This isn’t even about my innocence anymore, it’s all politics. You can’t keep a good man down.’

Benn has maintained his innocence since Mail Sport broke the bombshell news in October that he had tested positive for clomifene in September.

That led to the cancellation of his showdown with Eubank Jr and triggered accusations of a cover up, prior to our subsequent revelation that Benn previously produced a positive test in July for the same substance.

The Board of Control refused to ‘confirm or deny’ the provisional suspension when contacted by Mail Sport, while UKAD said in a statement: ‘UKAD takes all matters of suspected doping activity very seriously. We will not comment publicly on the specific facts of any case that may or may not be ongoing. We do this to respect and ensure the confidentiality of information as required by the World Anti-Doping Code and other applicable laws and regulations.’

Benn’s promoter Eddie Hearn told us he was unaware of the suspension, but did confirm Benn’s evidence had now been shared with UKAD.

That marks a crucial step forward in the saga, with Benn having previously drawn criticism for telling Piers Morgan that ‘pride’ was his reason for not co-operating.

Much has been made of the challenges of the case because both of Benn’s positive samples were collected by the Voluntary Anti-Doping Association and not UKAD.

However, as a licence holder at the time of his proposed fight with Eubank Jr in London, Benn does still fall under the latter’s jurisdiction.

It is understood Benn’s case could fall under UKAD’s article 2.2.1, around ‘Use or Attempted Use by an Athlete of a Prohibited Substance or a Prohibited Method’.

In that scenario, their rules point to strict liability, stating: ‘It is each athlete’s personal duty to ensure that no prohibited substance enters their body ... Accordingly, it is not necessary to demonstrate intent, fault, negligence or knowing use on the athlete’s part in order to establish an Anti-Doping Rule Violation.’

That is different to the standard applied in the much-criticised investigation held by the WBC in February.

They permitted Benn to return to their rankings after accepting it was possible Benn had accidentally ingested the substance, possibly through heavy consumption of eggs, though the boxer has insisted his positives were brought on by flawed testing procedures.

It is believed those testing methods and claims of poor practice by the laboratory form the crux of the evidence he has now handed over to UKAD.

Benn has been targeting a June 3 comeback, with Eubank Jr and Manny Pacquiao discussed as opponents.