Netflix’s series “Sweet Tooth” will be returning for Season 2 here in early 2023, with the streaming service announcing that the second season will premiere on April 27, 2023.

While you wait, watch the “Sweet Tooth” Season 2 official trailer below.

In “Sweet Tooth” Season 2, “Get ready for the hybrids to fight back! Gus and his fellow hybrids are held captive by the Last Men in order to find a cure for the Sick. To save his friends, Gus must find new strength as he uncovers the origins of The Great Crumble.”

“As a deadly new wave of the Sick bears down, Gus (Christian Convery) and a band of fellow hybrids are held prisoner by General Abbot (Neil Sandilands) and the Last Men. Looking to consolidate power by finding a cure, Abbot uses the children as fodder for the experiments of captive Dr. Aditya Singh (Adeel Akhtar), who’s racing to save his infected wife Rani (Aliza Vellani). To protect his friends, Gus agrees to help Dr. Singh, beginning a dark journey into his origins and his mother Birdie’s (Amy Seimetz) role in the events leading up to The Great Crumble.

“Outside the Preserve, Tommy Jepperd (Nonso Anozie) and Aimee Eden (Dania Ramirez) team up to break the hybrids free, a partnership that will be tested as Jepperd’s secrets come to light. As the revelations of the past threaten the possibility of redemption in the present, Gus and his found family find themselves on a collision course with Abbot and the evil forces that look to wipe them out once and for all.”

Jim Mickle (Stake Land) is the writer, showrunner, executive producer and director of “Sweet Tooth.” Executive Producers also include Team Downey’s Robert Downey Jr., Susan Downey and Amanda Burrell; and Linda Moran; and Team Downey’s Evan Moore.

From Warner Bros. Television, “Sweet Tooth” stars Christian Convery as Gus, Nonso Anozie as Jepperd, Adeel Akhtar as Dr. Singh, Stefania LaVie Owen as Bear, Dania Ramirez as Aimee Eden, Aliza Vellani as Rani Singh, Naledi Murray as Wendy, Neil Sandilands as General Abbot, Marlon Williams as Johnny Abbot, Christopher Sean Cooper Jr. as Teddy Turtle and Yonas Kibreab as Finn Fox; with James Brolin as the voice of the narrator.

“Sweet Tooth” is based on the DC comic book series by Jeff Lemire.