ISM Dhanbad MBA Result 2023:  In this post, we are providing information about the ISM Dhanbad MBA Result in the academic year of 2023. ISM Dhanbad MBA 2023 Results will be released in the t week of May 2023. ISM Dhanbad MBA Result conducts the entrance exam of ISM Dhanbad to offer admission into several PG diploma programs in the mass communication field. To provide education, research & training in the field of Education, this national level test is organized every year by the Indian School of Technology

Also, read the following links to know other details also

ISM Dhanbad, also known as the Indian Institute of Technology (Indian School of Mines) Dhanbad, is a public technical and research university located in Dhanbad, Jharkhand, India. It was established in 1926 and was granted the status of an Institute of National Importance in 2016.

ISM Dhanbad offers undergraduate, postgraduate, and doctoral programs in various fields such as engineering, applied sciences, management, and humanities. It is well known for its engineering programs and has been consistently ranked among the top engineering institutes in India.

ISM Dhanbad MBA Entrance 2 Result: It will be released by the Institute by online mode for various programs separately. The exam result will be announced by the authority two times i.e. First after the written exam and second after the Interview round.

The result merit list contains the only name of the applicants who are shortlisted for the further Interview round. The result will be uploaded in the form of a merit list in PDF Format. The PDF contains the name of the aspirants and their roll number.

In the below table we are mentioned the ISM Dhanbad MBA Entrance 2023 Result Date will be available check now:

The following are the steps to check the Indian School of Mines Exam Result in the academic year of 2023 is given as:

* Visit the official website of ISM Dhanbad MBA Result

* The home page will be available on the screen.

* Go to the News & Announcement section on the home screen.

* Next, click on the PDF file link given for display of the exam result.

* After that, select your course and applied and submit.

* The result of the applicant will be displayed on the screen of the computer. The entrance result will contain the roll no of the shortlisted student under various courses section.

* Download the PDF file and take the printout for further references.

IIT Dhanbad offers two MBA programmes one is in MBA & other is in Business analytics. There is total 62 seats in MBA programme & 30 seats in the MBA business analytics programme. The total number of seats in IIT Dhanbad is MBA admissions 2023-25.

ISM Dhanbad MBA Cutoff: Applicants successful in clearing the written exam will be shortlisted for Interview Round. GD & PI Rounds are expected in March 2023. The ISM Dhanbad MBA Result will upload the list of the applicants selected for the Interview. Also, a separate list will be prepared for the reserved category peoples.

The result weightage for written test and interview group will be 85:15. It is necessary for the applicant to pass the GD (Group Discussion) & PI (Personal Interview) Round to be eligible for admission into ISM Dhanbad MBA Result and its affiliate institutions.

The selection of the Aspirants into ISM Dhanbad MBA Result will be done on qualifying the entrance exam and GD & PI Round. NRI or NRI Sponsored aspirants need not appear for written test and will be selected by clearing the Group Discussion & Personal Interview Rounds.

The admission process into 6 campuses of ISM Dhanbad MBA Result 2023 will be followed by the ISM Dhanbad MBA Results 2023 counselling procedure. It will be done on the basis of rank obtained by the competitor in the written test. Qualified Students will be sent call letters for GD & PI Round. The final selection of candidates for admission is expected in the second week of July 2023.

To download the rank card of ISM Dhanbad, you can follow the below-mentioned steps:

Visit the official website of ISM Dhanbad.

Look for the link to download the rank card and click on it.

Enter the required details, such as roll number, date of birth, etc.

The ISM Dhanbad rank card will appear on the screen.

ISM Dhanbad offers admission to its MBA program through the Common Admission Test (CAT) conducted by the Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs). Candidates who meet the minimum CAT cutoff score set by the institute are shortlisted for the next round of selection, which comprises a group discussion (GD) and personal interview (PI).

Shortlisted candidates are evaluated based on their academic performance, work experience (if any), and performance in the GD and PI. The final selection is made based on the candidate’s overall performance, and admission offers are made accordingly.

Apart from CAT, ISM Dhanbad also accepts scores from other management entrance exams such as XAT, GMAT, and CMAT for admission to its MBA program.

The Indian School of Mines (ISM) Dhanbad offers revaluation/reverification of results to students who are dissatisfied with their results. The revaluation/reverification process is conducted to ensure the accuracy of the marks and to provide an opportunity for students to address any discrepancies or errors in the evaluation process.

To apply for revaluation/reverification of results, students must follow the guidelines and procedures set by the ISM Dhanbad. The application process usually involves filling an online form or submitting a physical application form along with the prescribed fee.

ISM Dhanbad MBA Entrance 2023 Result can be checked by the candidates online through the login page. To get admission into different campuses of ISM Dhanbad MBA Result, applicants must clear their written test as well as the Personal Interview round.