Without a doubt, phone systems are one of the key communication services to a business. Since the invention of the revolutionary device, phone systems have been used for commercial purposes since 1877 (back when switchboard operators would manually connect phone calls!).

Since then, phone systems have changed and evolved over time to keep up with the demands of new technologies and human needs – for example, switching to electronic systems from batteries, and then later taking away the need for cables and going wireless.

Nowadays, whilst traditional telecommunication systems (legacy phone systems) still exist, we have now moved into a digital era, and that includes our phone systems.

A legacy phone system is an old, outdated hardware and software communications system that can be difficult to repair or replace due to upgrades that are no longer available.

Legacy systems run on public switched telephone networks (PSTN), which are connected by a web of copper cables that run underground – some of which have been there since the 19th century!

Whilst our traditional phone systems have been beneficial to our businesses over the years, the hardware and software on which they run on is becoming outdated and prone to multiple problems such as:

As we mentioned, some of the cables which these systems run on have been underground for many years, so when something goes wrong, it may not always be just a simple fix. When these systems go down, it’s more than likely that a specialist is required to fix the issues, causing a business to spend time and money where it’s not wanted.

With hybrid working now being the most common and modern way of working, it’s important for employees to stay connected and collate work efficiently. Unfortunately, legacy phone systems don’t quite hit the mark with integration and don’t always allow for disjointed tools to connect to the system (and if they do, it’s not a simple process).

Flexibility became very apparent when the Covid-19 pandemic hit and people had to work from home, leaving their business phones at their desks collecting multiple missed calls, voicemails, and dust. This led to employees having to use their personal phones and mobiles to make and receive work related calls.

Security should always be at the forefront of any business’s priorities, and this includes your phone system. Having an outdated system can make your phonelines more prone to cyber-attacks, hacks, and data breaches.

If your employees are having to use their personal phones whilst they are working from home, this can be a real cause for concern, as these separate phone calls are not protected by your business and could potentially be making your business data more vulnerable to hackers.

VoIP (voice over internet protocol) telephone systems form communications via IP networks such as the internet, whether it be phone-calls, text, email or chat functionalities.

Rather than data being received through underground copper wires like traditional phone systems, VoIP transmits data through the cloud in a digital format.

In order to keep up with the technologies of our modern world, moving to a VoIP phone system is a step in the right direction.

However, the most significant reason to going digital sooner rather than later is the UK’s PSTN network switch off in 2025. This means all the UK’s traditional copper-based networks will be terminated at the end of 2025.

Don’t panic, switching over to a VoIP system offers a host of benefits to an organisation, and can strip out the problems which occur with a legacy phone system.

* Make and receive calls on any device from wherever you are.

* Integrate business applications and systems with functionalities such as video calls, instant messaging and email.

* Stay connected with your team and customers.

* Access and collaborate with your business from anywhere on any device.

* Flexible and scalable voice options to suit your organisation’s needs.

There is no time like the present, and by switching over to VoIP now will give your business plenty of time to transition to your new system and be ready for the PSTN switch off.

We can help you to transition your old legacy phone system to  our Voice One solutions, a flexible and low-cost cloud-based phone solution for high-quality business calls across all devices, whilst combining secure digital phone services from BT Wholesale with Microsoft Teams Operator Connect.

There are no locked-in long term contracts, allowing you to scale up and down usage with ease. You can also mix and match your digital voice licenses to replace your legacy phone system ahead of the 2025 switch off.

If you would like to upgrade your phone system and begin your journey to future-proof connectivity within your business, contact us today.