Ilias Akhomach has said ‘OK’ to a summer switch to Premier League outfit Leeds United with Victor Orta helping convince the La Liga starlet to leave Barcelona on a free transfer.

On Tuesday afternoon, Spanish publication Sport claimed that Ilias was just ‘hours’ away from potentially completing his move to Elland Road.

Such reports may have been a little premature; Mundo Deportivo insist that ‘nothing is closed’ just yet. But things are certainly heading in the right direction.

Ilias initially wanted to sign a new contract at Barcelona. That was, however, until holding talks with Leeds’ director of football Victor Orta.

The Spanish talentspotter has reportedly ‘convinced’ 19-year-old Ilias that he would be better off in West Yorkshire than in Catalonia, having spoken publicly about his admiration for a player who made his La Liga bow under Xavi around 18 months ago.

“He is a footballer whose contract ends. There are many teams in the race to get his services. A player with so much talent, in such a special contractual situation. (He) is going to be very difficult (to sign),” Orta told Relevo a few weeks ago.

“We’ll see who gets him. A decisive player, a Spanish talent, trained in Barcelona.

“He has earned the right to choose his next step. The one he chooses will surely be good for him, for his family and for his environment.”

Ilias also has offers from AC Milan and Sevilla. Premier League leaders Arsenal too.

At Leeds, however, first-team football is likely to be far easier to come by. Joe Gelhardt, Sam Greenwood, Wilfried Gnonto, Crysencio Summerville have all featured regularly in white; the Yorkshire giants priding themselves upon luring some of Europe’s most exciting teenage talents to the rolling hills of ‘God’s Country’.

Labelled a ‘new Lionel Messi’ by former Blaugrana director Patrick Kluivert; Ilias has not been included in the matchday squad for any of Barcelona’s La Liga fixtures so far in 2022/23.

Leeds, meanwhile, may have a former Elland Road favourite to thank for Ilias’ seemingly impending arrival…