THIS CONTENT IS RESERVED FOR SUBSCRIBERS ONLY Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.  Unlimited online access to articles from across Canada with one account. Get exclusive access to the Saskatoon StarPhoenix ePaper, an electronic replica of the print edition that you can share, download and comment on. Enjoy insights and behind-the-scenes analysis from our award-winning journalists. Support local journalists and the next generation of journalists.      Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.  Unlimited online access to articles from across Canada with one account. Get exclusive access to the Saskatoon StarPhoenix ePaper, an electronic replica of the print edition that you can share, download and comment on. Enjoy insights and behind-the-scenes analysis from our award-winning journalists. Support local journalists and the next generation of journalists.      Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience.  Access articles from across Canada with one account. Share your thoughts and join the conversation in the comments.  Get email updates from your favourite authors.

We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or

tap here to see other videos from our team.     Saskatoon police change policy on how information is provided to victims and their advocates after public complaint         We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or

tap here to see other videos from our team.       The public complaint was filed earlier this year to the Professional Standards unit by the sister of a crime victim who was acting on his behalf. When she called the police communication centre to get an update about the investigation on Jan. 23, the request was refused.

We deliver the local news you need in these turbulent times on weekdays at 3 p.m.         There was an error, please provide a valid email address.        By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails or any newsletter. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300    Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Saskatoon StarPhoenix Afternoon Headlines will soon be in your inbox.   We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again

The review found a “procedural gap” that led to police failing to meet the requirements of the Canadian Victims Bill of Rights. It concluded the victim’s sister, acting on his behalf, should have been provided certain information upon request after an appropriate process.  “Going forward, calls from victims — and their advocates — to the communications section seeking information on investigations and/or court matters will be referred to SPS Victim Services,” Insp. Nolan Berg wrote in the report’s conclusion. If Victim Services isn’t available, the person should be directed to the lead investigator on the case.

“If a request for information is received from a victim’s advocate, Victim Services staff or the investigator shall document consent received from the victim for the advocate to receive information on their behalf,” the policy says.  People who have been in contact directly with investigators can still connect to them directly, police clarified in an email.  The Canadian Victims Bill of Rights sets out statutory rights for victims of crime, including the right to obtain information about the status and outcome of an investigation. The legislation allows relatives of victims who have died or are incapable of acting on their own behalf to act on the victim’s behalf.  According to the report, the victim’s sister’s request fulfilled the conditions of the Canadian Victims Bill of Rights.

She was acting as an advocate for him because he is a senior and is hard of hearing. She told a communications section special constable about her concerns for her brother’s safety and asked for an update on the investigation into the crime, the report said.  The special constable who refused to provide information cited privacy legislation and the fact the victim is an adult, it noted.  The report said communications section staff can’t verify the identity of a caller, so releasing information over the phone poses a risk of a privacy breach. The section takes emergency and non-emergency calls 24 hours a day, seven days a week.  The police senior access and privacy officer had recommended that any release of information to victims of crime under the Canadian Victims Bill of Rights is best done by the Victim Services unit, the report says. Victim Services has specific training, provides updates on files to victims, has direct contact and can verify someone’s authenticity as an advocate, it adds.

Tucker Carlson documentary asks, 'Should the U. S. liberate Canada from Trudeau?'

This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.