More and more frequently I am facing the question WHY

* WHY COMBUSTION CARS SHOULD BE BANNED

* WHY DO REGULATIONS TAKE MORE MONEY FROM THE POCKETS

The answer is frequently containing words like SYSTEM and/or REGULATIONS and/or ORDER combined with FUTURE and SUSTAINABLE

During one of our early morning discussions with my clients and partners, we come every day closer to the root cause, and today in the morning one of the core findings has been revealed

The term MEANING is being translated as SENSE as well

This is the answer to many WHYs and at the same time the reason why so many fear the change because they fear that the MEANING that has been for centuries represented by MONEY, would be found as empty and meaningless, which in fact it is.

MEANINGLESS and SENSELESS are similar or the same

The only question is why should anyone prefer to live a MEANINGLESS LIFE? It is the meaning that makes our life full

You may ask, what the header image has to do with the meaning

If you will look closer, you will recognize that the bags on the image are filled with ICING SALT used to defrost the roads fast during winter time. All of the bags, that has never been torn or opened are waiting to be wasted, because stored for several years, with no use, and the expiration date is reached.

Because we are living in the WASTE AGE

ORDERS rule our lives, creating WASTEFULL streams in which useful products, solutions, people, animals, and plants become waste just because it will make few the third most profitable industry in the world.

This fact was well expressed by Ludek Fencl, CEO that found MEANINGFULLNESS in INDUSTRY 5.0 PRINCIPLES that he applies to his work

Here is his post, translated by LINKEDIN into ENGLISH

… If a system starts consuming more energy than it can produce over the long term, it cannot maintain its complexity or develop it further. Eventually, due to the internal accumulation of debt, there will be a rapid and fundamental loss of complexity due to a lack of resources. This is simply called COLLAPSE.

IF WE WANT TO REGENERATE AND SUCCEED,

We need to take note of these six changes in order to reconsider with respect how the business will run:

1. WASTE PROCESSES AND THE THREAT OF RECESSION — whether accidentally or purposefully, Covid 19 has shown us how fragile, uncertain, and unsustainable markets have been. Dependence on subcontracting brought the whole industry to a standstill — the result of the blindness of centralism.

Most important? Decisions on how to allocate resources and invest in growth with a view to own added value and as little dependence on external markets as possible. BUT THE KEY IS NOT TO BE AFRAID TO DISCOVER, NAME AND STOP ALL WASTE PROCESSES!

2. SYSTEMIC DISTRUST — until 2020 we lived in an absolute surplus of everything, the demise of old-aged brands was unimaginable. But never have big brands been threatened as they are today, and never has there been such an opportunity for new industries and new brands.

3. POOR ECONOMIC PRODUCTIVITY — The digitization of work, along with the adoption of hybrid and remote working practices, has created a refocus on the fundamentals of workplace productivity. We need to rethink how work is done and who is doing it in order to respond to current disruptions and changes. Not rethinking these basics will exhaust already exhausted employees and reduce their willingness and ability to stay engaged when we need them productive and fresh during this crisis.

4. SUSTAINABILITY — Large organizations are now under pressure from customers, investors, regulators, and employees to do more for environmental sustainability, and having a sustainable business is seen as an opportunity to drive efficiency and revenue growth. The reality is still only theoretical and therefore factually very sad. An example is the third most profitable industry in the world — the waste industry, why do we all feed this big tick on the artery of every organization?

5. TALENT SHORTAGE — Organizations are faced with a unique challenge: retaining and motivating the talent they have, and finding the new talent they need, especially when employee budgets are shrinking or staying the same. The fight for new staff will be challenging, so organizations will have to be creative. An example is the Czech Post — its great advantage is accessibility for every citizen, is it really the best solution to give up this competitive advantage?

6. EMERGING TECHNOLOGIES — Emerging technologies will have a major disruptive effect in the coming decade. Seismic change doesn’t happen overnight, but ignoring disruption in its early stages usually causes the entry price to be higher later. To seize the opportunity, it’s important to understand what, when, and how key technologies will affect your strategic ambitions for years to come.

Instead of looking for NEW ORDER, we should aim for MEANINGFULLNES

The CORE TASK OF THE DAY

FIND THE MEANING OF YOUR OWN WORK

Have a nice time free of waste and wasting in all its forms, stay safe, free and visible