Following her time in the Hamptons for Summer House Season 7, Danielle Olivera and her boyfriend of two years, Robert Sieber, called it quits.

“Both of our careers and our lives are stressful, [and] insane, and the relationship really took a hit,” Danielle told The Daily Dish about the breakup. Danielle has been working on a fashion app, and Robert is the culinary director of Montauk’s Surf Lodge and Aspen’s Snow Lodge. “We couldn’t communicate effectively, and we needed to find our own happiness, separately, unfortunately. I hope it’s for the best, but I can tell you right now, it feels really bad.”

As Danielle was going through her breakup with Robert, she was also still dealing with her friendship issues with Lindsay Hubbard. The former besties’ friendship fell apart during the summer, in part because Danielle had questions about Lindsay’s relationship with her now-fiancé Carl Radke, which fans can see on Season 7.

Though Lindsay and Danielle weren’t on speaking terms when Danielle’s relationship with Robert was coming to an end, it turns out the Hubb House PR founder wasn’t completely shocked to find out about the breakup.

On the April 17 episode of Watch What Happens Live with Andy Cohen, Lindsay said she recognized how demanding Robert’s schedule was as a chef, and how that may have taken a toll on the relationship.

“I also can understand why they broke up,” Lindsay explained, which you can see in the clip above. “Dating a chef is very hard. He’s not around often; he’s working all the time.”

Lindsay added that she thinks Danielle was “projecting a lot” when she criticized how quickly she was moving in her relationship with Carl during the summer, and that the upcoming reunion will determine whether their friendship can ever move forward.

It remains to be seen if the former friends will be able to reconcile during the reunion, but Danielle isn’t too optimistic that they’ll get back to the same place in their relationship.

“It’s honestly nice to hear her say that,” Danielle said on WWHL back in February, referencing how Lindsay said she was “hopeful” that the two would be friends again in time for the latter cast member’s wedding. “But when we finished the season, it was very much the opposite sentiment. So I think time has gone by where we’re both getting soft and coming around to it, but she’s way more ready than I am.”

Watch Summer House on Bravo Mondays at 9/8c and the next day on Peacock. Catch up on the Bravo app.

Watch WWHL on Bravo Sundays through Thursdays and the next day on Peacock. Catch up on the Bravo app.