Jude Bellingham would be an absolute perfect fit into Erik ten Hag’s regime at Manchester United.

The Borussia Dortmund star is one of the hottest prospects in world football right now and it appears United boss Erik ten Hag has huge admiration for him.

The ex-Birmingham midfielder nearly did join United before he made his move to Germany, with sources at United saying they “rolled out the red carpet” for Bellingham as they tried to entice him to Old Trafford during his visit to the training facilities at Carrington.

Now under new management and with Bellingham’s future at Dortmund uncertain – could now be the time to pull the trigger on the 19-year-old?

Bellingham looked like he could be destined for Liverpool in the summer, following his constant flirtation with the club and visible friendships with players of the club, but news broke last night that Liverpool have ‘cooled their interest‘ in the player – meaning that he’ll be open to exploring different avenues.

There have been reports of Erik ten Hag expressing his admiration for Bellingham. According to The MEN, the Dutchman believes Bellingham can ‘create history’ at Manchester United, following in the footsteps of previous midfield generals such as Bryan Robson and Roy Keane.

The report states: “Erik ten Hag’s admiration for Bellingham during the World Cup was so great he told confidants if he could sign any player in the world it would be the England midfielder.”

It adds: “Ten Hag would endorse a second United pitch to Bellingham.”

His boisterous style of play would be perfect for United, and he would definitely be future captain material.

He could still be heading for the Premier League and the two teams that will most likely battle it out for his signature are the two Manchester clubs, along with Real Madrid.

However, Bellingham himself has stated he values clubs with “passion, honour and reputation”, which all but rules out the Cityzens.

Liverpool dropping out of this race could be a decision they go onto regret for a very long time. A midfield pairing of Casemiro and Bellingham could be an unstoppable one, which catapults Manchester United to the next level.