Financial support for young researchers in the field of oral health is critical to their professional development, and one way to provide that much-needed encouragement is the ADA Foundation Crest and Oral-B Promising Researcher Award.

The ADA Foundation Crest and Oral-B Promising Researcher Award promotes and recognizes excellence in oral health research by providing financial assistance for promising researchers so they can pursue a career in research that advances preventive dentistry.

The annual award provides $5,000 to one individual to attend one or more scientific conferences to further their knowledge or skills, and/or to present their research findings at such  conference.

The application period opens April 17, and the deadline in June 19.

Last year’s award recipient was Nicholas Fischer, Ph. D., a dental student at the University of Minnesota School of Dentistry.

Dr. Fischer earned a degree in environmental sciences and biology from Creighton University and a Ph. D. in oral biology from the University of Minnesota. His research project sought to demonstrate that a polymer sealant for Class V restoration surfaces, particularly in older adults, can extend the lifespan of restorations by promoting formation of hemidesmosomes and gingival attachment.

The ADA Foundation is also encouraging dental students and early-career dentists to apply for the Dr. David Whiston Leadership Award, which will cover the costs of attending the 2023-2024 ADA Institute for Diversity in Leadership.

The applicant must be a dental student, graduate student or resident enrolled in an accredited dental school education program, or an early-career dentist under the age of 40 or in their first five years of professional work following residency.

The award committee will be looking for a promising leader who is a member of a diverse group that has been traditionally underrepresented in leadership whose research excellence and skills has made substantial contribution to improve the oral health of the public.

Applications must be submitted via an online portal by June 19.

The award funds, totaling $5,000, will cover the costs of attending the institute.

The award is named for David Whiston, D. D.S., who served the oral health profession in a number of leadership roles for many years, including as ADA president from 1997-98, trustee from 1992-96 and president of the ADA Foundation’s board of directors from 2010-14.

For more information about the 2023 awards, visit ADAFoundation.org.

For any questions about the application process, contact Tracey Schilligo at foundation@ada.org or .