The fourth trailer for the upcoming drama series The Idol was released on YouTube on Monday.

In the clip, Lily-Rose Depp portrayed a rising pop star who enlists the help of an enigmatic self-help guru and cult leader, played by The Weeknd, to maneuver her on a dangerous course to stardom.

The Grammy-winning performer, whose voice was mimicked on recently-released AI-generated track that went viral, also serves as the co-creator of the program, which will premiere on HBO on June 4.

The trailer begins with Jocelyn, portrayed by Depp, taking part in a sultry photoshoot while Caleb, portrayed by Troye Sivan, asks about where to find 'the last truly f***ing nasty, nasty, bad pop girl.'

Jocelyn later heads to a club where she locks eyes with Tedros, portrayed by The Weeknd, who later tells her that she's 'got the best job in the world. You should be having way more fun.'

After the guru takes her back to his house for lines of cocaine, Depp's character comments that 'he's really unlocked something in me,' after which he presses himself against her during a recording session.

A press relations team then discovers a photo that had apparently been shared on social media by Jocelyn, in which 'she was on her f***ing knees.'

As the rising pop star practices a sultry dance routine with several other dancers, Tedros states: 'Pop music is like the ultimate Trojan horse. You get people to dance, you get people to sing along.'

Jocelyn, after settling into a backstage area, adds that she wants 'to be the biggest touring act ever' before a member of her PR team, portrayed by Da'Vine Joy Randolph, remarks that she has not 'seen no s*** like this since the 90s.'

Although another member of the team, played by Rachel Sennott, expresses that Tedros has 'brainwashed' Depp's character, she continues to take part in his dangerous plans for her stardom.

After the pop star appears on a livestream where she promises that 'a new Jocelyn is coming,' a montage of scenes is shown, during which an individual writhes in pain while wearing a shock collar and the singer practices her dance routine further.

The trailer concludes after Jocelyn appears at an arena show, greets her 'angels,' and begins her set.

Development on The Idol was previously revealed to the public in June of 2021, when The Weeknd, born Abel Tesfaye, announced that he would be working on a television project alongside Reza Fahim and Euphoria creator Sam Levinson.

Depp subsequently signed on to appear in the project as its lead character that September.

Other members of the cast include Moses Sumney, Dan Levy and Eli Roth, as well as the late Anne Heche.

Physical production on the project kicked off in November of 2021 and continued well into the following year, with shooting taking place during The Weeknd's show at the SoFi Stadium last September.

The series attracted much attention after several sources reported that a creative overhaul had taken place in April of last year.

Several cast members were removed from the project and Levinson ultimately took over former director Amy Seimetz's role.

Tesfaye recently sat down with Interview Magazine and commented on the rumors regarding the show's rocky production.

He stated: 'As an artist, you have to know that you can't please everybody, and you have to accept that it comes with the job...with time people will learn to understand.'

The Idol is currently scheduled to make its official debut out of competition during the 76th Cannes Film Festival, which will take place next month.