We are delighted to feature this character interview by Azma Dar!

When her missing husband is found dead in a car crash far from home, a charismatic actress must find out the truth in this utterly fresh take on the domestic suspense novel.

Sophie is an aspiring British Pakistani actress whose only claim to fame – despite her vast and unscrupulous ambitions – is the unplanned on-camera birth of her son, a clip which has become something of a cult favourite on the Indian B movie scene. Her husband, Tariq, is a pillar of Bradford’s Muslim community and her perfect match, until his sudden disappearance under mysterious circumstances. When a body is found, presumed to be his, but disfigured in a way that makes identification difficult, Sophie is distraught.

Tariq was her ‘third time lucky husband’. Her first, Amir, came out of a childhood sweetheart relationship that couldn’t last, and her rebound marriage to doting Faraz, a recent immigrant to the UK and obsessed with the Royal Family, was even shorter lived. Is Sophie just luckless or is there more to her than meets the eye? And maybe, just maybe, one of her exes has something to do with Tariq’s untimely death. Might one of them be responsible for the threatening letters? Sophie herself is guilty of something, but is murder part of her ambition?

AZMA: Hello, Sophie, I’m so glad you could make time to speak to us. I know you had a very busy schedule today.

SOPHIE: Thank you for inviting me. But yes, I’m in the middle of rehearsing for a new project so I have been busy.

AZMA: Can you share any details with us?

SOPHIE: Well, if all goes well, it’s due to hit your screens sometime in the next six months, and you might catch me singing a line or two as well. It’s called Heaven’s Own.

SOPHIE: Well, no, it’s an advert. For the rice brand, Heaven’s Own. But there will be a rom-com further down the line, and a thriller too. I’m working on that next.

AZMA: Are you able to reveal anything about the next project or is it too early?

SOPHIE: It’s a medical thriller, so I’m really excited about that. I’ve always wanted to be in a hospital drama. I’ll be playing a junior doctor who gets kidnapped by a psychotic patient. The patient believes I’m the reincarnation of his grandma. There’ll be lots of suspense and scary, jumpy moments.

AZMA: It sounds fascinating, I’ll look forward to seeing that. And it’s great to hear you’re being so productive with everything that’s going on in your personal life. It must be hard, though.

SOPHIE: Yes, of course, it very hard, unbearable, but the work keeps me distracted and it’s also a necessity. I have to work to keep myself going, financially. I have a young son who relies on me.

AZMA: From what I understand, your husband disappeared recently on his way to work?

SOPHIE: Yes, it was just an ordinary morning. Tariq got dressed and went off like he did every day and I never heard from or saw him again. I still can’t believe he’s gone. Vanished. It doesn’t make sense.

AZMA: And the police have no idea? What do you personally think happened to Tariq?

SOPHIE: It’s not something I like to dwell on but the only possible explanation is that he’s being held by someone against his will. We were- are- so much in love. Why would he go off like that if he wasn’t being kept prisoner by some crazy individual? Or individuals?

AZMA: Is there any message you’d like to pass on to Tariq, if he can read this, or to these people you think are responsible for kidnapping him?

SOPHIE: To Tariq- don’t give up hope, wherever you are, because I will never give up on looking for you. I’ll find you again one day. And if you’re the person who’s taken him- please bring him back. I’ll be grateful, I’ll give you anything you like, money, whatever. If it’s fame you want I’ll get you a part in a film. Nobody will ever know what you did, I promise. Just let my husband go.

Azma Dar is an author and playwright. She has written three full-length theatre productions, several short plays, a radio play for BBC Asian Network and has a forthcoming play entitled NOOR at Southwark Playhouse in November 2022. Her debut novel, The Secret Arts, was published by Dean Street Press in 2015.