News

Sponsored

Events

The Chiefs Forum: The Next 100 Days

Podcasts

The Front Page Podcast with George Gerbo

Get the day’s top stories in 5 minutes

LATEST: When Ford pardoned Nixon

Few things are truly unprecedented in American politics

Biden to tout economic growth as dividend of Northern Ireland peace

Abortion: GOP must get its head out of the sand as Democrats gain

No evidence that guns for self-defense lead to crime

Prohibitionists are at it again

Despite not yet entering the race, do you consider Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis a 2024 presidential candidate?

Yes, he is my candidate

Yes, but he is not my candidate

No, but I hope he decides to run

No, and I hope he stays out

View results

President Joe Biden steps off Air Force One at Belfast International Airport in Belfast, Northern Ireland, Tuesday, April 11, 2023. Biden is visiting the United Kingdom and Ireland in part to help celebrate the 25th anniversary of the Good Friday … more >

BELFAST, Northern Ireland (AP) — President Biden is in Northern Ireland on Wednesday to participate in marking the 25th anniversary of the Good Friday Agreement, which brought peace to this part of the United Kingdom, as a new political crisis tests the strength of that peace.

On his first presidential visit to Northern Ireland, Biden was stressing that American investment can help fuel economic growth – especially if the fractious politicians in Belfast resolve a new political crisis that has rattled the Good Friday peace deal and put Northern Ireland’s government on pause.

In a speech at Ulster University’s new campus in downtown Belfast, Biden will focus on “Northern Ireland’s vast economic potential,” said Amanda Sloat, the Democratic president’s top adviser on European affairs.

She said Biden will talk about “how the last 25 years were focused on peace but the next 25 years should be marked by growth and economic prosperity.”

U. S. involvement was key to negotiating the Good Friday accord, which largely ended decades of sectarian violence that killed 3,600 people. While that peace has endured, Northern Ireland is currently without a functioning government.

Stormont, the seat of its assembly, has been suspended since the Democratic Unionist Party, which formed half of a power-sharing government, walked out a year ago over a post-Brexit trade dispute.

Biden’s schedule on Wednesday begins over coffee with U.K. Prime Minister Rishi Sunak and includes short meetings with leaders of Northern Ireland’s five main political parties.

Sloat said that while Biden wants to see the Stormont government back up and running, he won’t try to strongarm Northern Ireland’s politicians back to the table.

“The purpose of the president’s visit today is to mark the Good Friday Agreement, to continue to reaffirm the support of the United States for peace and prosperity,” she said. “The president’s message … is the United States’ strong support for that, the belief that the people of Northern Ireland deserve to have a democratically elected power sharing representative governance.”

The political crisis stems, in part, from Brexit. Britain’s departure from the European Union left Northern Ireland poised uneasily between the rest of the U.K. and EU member Ireland and put the peace agreement under increased strain.

After much wrangling, Britain and the EU struck a deal in February to address the tensions over trade, an agreement welcomed by the U.S., which had urged London and Brussels to end their post-Brexit feud. The Democratic Unionist Party, though, says the Windsor Framework doesn’t go far enough and has refused to return to government.

As he set off for Belfast on Tuesday, Biden said a priority of his trip to Northern Ireland was to “keep the peace.”

While U.K. officials hope the president’s presence can help nudge the unionists back into government, Biden faces mistrust from some unionists because of his Irish American heritage. Sammy Wilson, a DUP lawmaker in the U.K. Parliament, told Talk TV that Biden “has got a record of being pro-republican, anti-unionist, anti-British.”

“The track record of the president shows he’s not anti-British,” Sloat said, adding that “the U.K. remains one of out strongest and closest allies.”

Biden is spending less than 24 hours in Northern Ireland before moving on to the Republic of Ireland for a three-day visit, including an address to the Dublin parliament, attendance at a gala dinner and trips to two ancestral hometowns. He will fly to County Louth, on Ireland’s east coast, on Wednesday to visit a cemetery, tour a castle, walk around downtown Dundalk and attend a community gathering.

A few Belfast residents said Biden’s visit was important even though it will be short.

“I think it’s great that he’s coming because of the anniversary of ‘the Troubles,’” Julie McNeill said Monday as she waited in the rain for a bus, referring to more than three decades of sectarian violence that left more than 3,600 people dead. “I think it’s important that he does come.”

Still, McNeill said she was a little disappointed that the Irish American president would spend less than a day in Belfast. But she said she understood.

“I mean, the man’s a busy man, and he’s 80 years old. I’m sure it’s hard for him,” she said.

Samuel Olufemia, who is studying for a degree in public health at Ulster University, said he was looking forward to meeting Biden on campus.

“Having him in Belfast here is a privilege,” said Olufemia, who is from Nigeria. “It’s going to be an historic visit, and that’s one of the reasons I’m excited.”

A massive security operation was in place for Biden’s stay in Belfast, with a heavy police presence on blocked-off streets around the president’s hotel and the Ulster campus.

Last month, U.K. intelligence services raised Northern Ireland’s terrorism threat level from “substantial” to “severe.” But Biden said then that not even the heightened risk of an attack would keep him from making the trip.

Biden last visited Ireland in 2016, when he was U.S. vice president.

Click to Read More and View Comments