WILLIAMSPORT, Pa. – Jonathan A. Nichols has been hired to serve in a senior administrative post in Financial Operations at Pennsylvania College of Technology.

As executive director of finance/controller, Nichols will work closely with Penn College’s chief financial officer in establishing and directing financial operations in support of the college’s Strategic Plan. He will also serve as chief accounting officer, directing a wide variety of financial activities across the college.

“I am so pleased to have Jon Nichols join our team,” said Suzanne T. Stopper, senior vice president for finance/CFO. “He brings a wealth of knowledge in accounting and in higher education. As a certified public accountant, he consulted with higher education clients throughout the country. I am excited to see the innovation he can bring to the financial operations of the college.”

Nichols comes to Penn College from First Community Foundation Partnership of Pennsylvania, where he had served as chief financial officer since January 2021, supervising all accounting functions. Prior to that, he was employed by Baker Tilly for nearly 14 years, serving as senior manager for the Risk Advisory Team. In that role, he prepared and analyzed financial statements for a wide array of clients, focusing on colleges and universities with complex endowments. He also served as interim controller for multiple large private colleges and universities, assisting with their day-to-day operations and financial reporting.

Nichols earned a Bachelor of Science in Supply Chain Management and Information Systems from Penn State. He is also a graduate of Leadership Lycoming and is a certified public accountant in Pennsylvania.

Some of Nichols’ community affiliations include: Williamsport Area School District Education Foundation Board of Directors, board member; Williamsport Area Little League Board of Directors, treasurer/board member; Pennsylvania Institute of Certified Public Accountants, past president, Northcentral Chapter; Baker Tilly US, LLP, Leadership and Entrepreneurial Program, graduate; Northcentral Pennsylvania Conservancy, treasurer/board member; and Lock Haven University Business Administration and Accounting Advisory Board of Directors, board member.

For more about Penn College, a national leader in applied technology education and a special mission affiliate of Penn State, visit www.pct.edu, email admissions@pct.edu or call toll-free 800-367-9222.