Dubbed by many as the “Oscars for scientists,” the 9th Annual Breakthrough Prize Ceremony was a star-studded affair.

Held for the first time at the Academy Museum of Motion Pictures in Los Angeles, the prestigious event honors “scientists changing the world.”

Previously held in San Francisco, the ninth edition of the ceremony was attended by the world’s top innovators and a bevy of A-list stars.

Brie Larson was among the award presenters at the 9th Annual Breakthrough Prize Ceremony held at the Academy Museum of Motion Pictures in Los Angeles, California, on April 15, 2023 (Credit: Abaca Press / INSTARimages)

This event was hosted by James Corden, with awards presented by a slew of prominent names in the entertainment industry.

The list includes Brie Larson, Lily Collins, Robert Downey, Jr., Gal Gadot, Chris Pine, and Ashton Kutcher, among others. Meanwhile, performances by John Legend and will.i.am livened up the bash.

will.i.am was one of the performers during the 9th Annual Breakthrough Prize Ceremony (Credit: Faye’s Vision / Cover Images)

At the ceremony, two celebrities showed us how to work a jumpsuit by infusing their signature styles and adding their personal touches.

Kristen Bell and Christina Aguilera have different styles in that the former favors understated elegance, while the latter prefers a maximalist aesthetic.

Let’s see how they incorporated their own styles in a garment as versatile as a jumpsuit.

The Veronica Mars actress showed up in a silky chartreuse creation from Cong Tri’s Spring 2020 collection, which added a burst of color on the red carpet.

Kristen Bell provided a delightful pop of color to the red carpet in a neon Cong Tri Spring 2020 jumpsuit (Credit: Jean Paul / PAPIX / INSTARimages)

She looked elegant in her jumpsuit, styled with REZA jewels for added sparkle. Her hair was parted at the center and swept up in a sleek updo to show off her gorgeous face and minimal makeup.

Kristen Bell kept her beauty look simple with REZA jewelry for added sparkle (Credit: Jean Paul / PAPIX / INSTARimages)

The cape also added a dramatic effect to the star’s look, which looked good in photographs as she sashayed down the carpet.

But what’s even more interesting about The Good Place star’s look is that she rewore it from the Critics’ Choice Awards in 2020!

Kristen Bell attending the 2020 Critics’ Choice Awards at the Barker Hangar in Santa Monica, California, on January 12, 2020 (Credit: Adriana M. Barraza / WENN)

Her Brian Atwood heels also made a comeback to give a stylish boost to the star’s petite frame.

Kristen Bell wore matching Brian Atwood platform heels for a stylish boost at the 9th Annual Breakthrough Prize Ceremony (Credit: Jean Paul / PAPIX / INSTARimages)

Ever the maximalist, Christina Aguilera couldn’t just wear a simple jumpsuit to an event.

She ensured that all eyes were on her as she stepped out on the red carpet in a sheer black jumpsuit with jagged tiger-stripe cut-out detailing that showed off hints of skin and a glimpse of her nude bra.

This black velvet Versace number was styled with a long black coat with peaked satin lapels. She added some bling courtesy of her thin rings, large hoop earrings, and a diamond necklace.

Christina Aguilera wore diamond jewels to add some sparkle to her outfit (Credit: Jean Paul / PAPIX / INSTARimages)

The Advocate for Change awardee didn’t stop there. She also carried a black leather Chrome Hearts clutch and slipped on black Prada sunglasses.

Christina Aguilera also slipped on a pair of matching black Prada sunglasses to add a dose of cool edge to her look (Credit: Faye’s Vision / Cover Images)

Her hair was swept up in a topknot with tendrils softly framing her face. She also showed off her white pedicure in a pair of Gianvito Rossi Metropolis PVC slingback sandals.

Christina Aguilera wore Gianvito Rossi Metropolis slingback heels and showed off her white pedicure (Credit: Faye’s Vision / Cover Images)

As for her date for the evening, fiancé Matthew Rutler attended the event in a classic black suit with a black tie and glossy black leather dress shoes.

Matthew Rutler and Christina Aguilera cozied up to each other at the 9th Annual Breakthrough Prize Ceremony (Credit: Faye’s Vision / Cover Images)

Whose style do you like best?