Dark Side of the Ring has announced it will be back for a fourth season, and fans don't have long to wait.

The professional wrestling docuseries will return with ten episodes that "explore stories like the emotional rollercoaster of one of wrestling’s most captivating and controversial couples, Chris Candido and Tammy “Sunny” Sytch."

Alongside this, the synopsis teases that the show will feature "the car accident that derailed the career of future World Champion Magnum T. A., wrestling’s most unhinged monster, Abdullah the Butcher, a focused look on the troubled life of Marty Jannetty, Shawn Michaels’ former tag team partner, and much more.”

Related: AEW announces All In show for Wembley Stadium in London

The gripping Vice TV series will be narrated by AEW wrestler Chris Jericho once again, and has been given the confirmed release date of May 30.

In a statement to Variety, executive producers Evan Husney and Jason Eisener said:  "We’re incredibly grateful to our viewers for giving this show the life that it has had for the past 4 years.

"As lifelong fans of professional wrestling, our subjects continue to inspire us. There are so many fascinating and compelling stories left to tell and it’s a privilege to share more of them in our fourth season."

While Morgan Hertzan, president of Global TV for Vice Media Group, added: "I’m cheering from the ropes to announce the return of Dark Side of the Ring, as proven this show and its spinoffs have been incredibly successful for the network and insightful to produce, now someone tag me in!"

Season 3 of Dark Side of the Ring aired in 2021 and covered topics including WWE founder Vince McMahon's steroid trial, Brian Pillman, Nick Gage, and The Ultimate Warrior.

In 2022 DSOTR producers Husney and Eisener teamed with Dwayne Johnson for Tales From The Territories, a series exploring the history of  territory wrestling.

Catch AEW Dynamite live every Thursday at 1am in the UK and Rampage every Saturday at 3am . US customers can also watch Dynamite on TBS and Rampage on TNT, and in the UK, Dynamite repeats air on ITV4.