SHOPPING – Contains affiliated content. Products featured in this Mail Best article are selected by our shopping writers. If you make a purchase using links on this page,

A multi-award winning 10ml bottle of 1,000mg of Premium Broad Spectrum CBD is helping improve users' health and well-being including, joint pain, anxiety and the quality of their sleep.

Shoppers taking the KLORIS 10% CBD Oil, especially those who suffer from restless legs syndrome, are seeing a marked improvement in their health. And there's never been a better time to try it for yourself as it's currently 40 per cent off got MailOnline readers.

CBD, or cannabidiol, is a natural compound found in the hemp plant. It has been shown to have a range of health benefits, including relaxing nerves, relieving pain, and improving sleep.

For an easy way to harness the benefits of CBD, many have successfully turned to the 'game-changing' KLORIS 10% CBD Oil.

The oil is an effective, simple and quick way to get your daily dose of CBD. All you have to do is place a few drops under your tongue, where they can be quickly absorbed into your system.

The high-strength CBD Oil Drops have received over 100 five-star reviews from users who have reported reduced pain and improved sleep and anxiety. And now, you can get 40 per cent off, now £38.40 (was £64).

Each drop contains approximately 5mg CBD, with each bottle containing around 200 drops. Taking the drops under the tongue ensures the CBD enters your bloodstream fast, so you'll start to feel the effects in as little as five minutes.

And users have shared how they're seeing a 'noticeable improvement', impressed with how it 'eases discomfort' and is 'a lifesaver for anxiety. Others have noted how it also helps improve joint pain and even symptoms of restless leg syndrome.

One five-star review for the KLORIS 10% CBD Oil Drops wrote: 'This has been a lifesaver for anxiety at work- took it before a bring presentation and felt fully in control and chilled. Great stuff.'

Another agreed, also impressed with the drops: 'I use this product occasionally to help me have a more restful sleep and to help with my achey joints. It has certainly benefitted me.'

A third penned: 'I use the oil for joint pains and anxiety. I have noticed that when using these drops I feel much calmer particularly in the evenings and aching of joints is less prominent.'

MailOnline readers can now get 40 per cent off the CBD oil drops, now reduced to £38.40.