Washington DC, USA – April 18, 2023 – JR Spear, the founder of CREED Consulting, and the author of The Success Guide to Building Your Coaching Empire, has opened his business networking group to the public. After proving the concept with an elite group of current clients, the BLN Network is now open for new enrollments. The network is designed to connect entrepreneurs, coaches, and thought leaders to foster growth and collaboration. The BLN Network is a platform where individuals can access exclusive content, tools, and resources to help them grow their businesses and achieve success.

The BLN Network provides members with access to a community of entrepreneurs, coaches, and thought leaders who are dedicated to growth and collaboration. Members will have access to exclusive content, tools, and resources to help them grow their businesses and achieve success, including innovative systems and strategies from industry experts, and connections with high-level entrepreneurs, referral partners, and potential new clients.

“I’m excited to bring together a community of like-minded individuals who are passionate about growth and collaboration. I believe that by working together, we can achieve greater success and impact,” said Spear.

JR Spear, a military veteran who teaches entrepreneurs how to prepare for an ambush, has become a thought leader and expert in business growth. Spear has helped hundreds of entrepreneurs grow their businesses using his proprietary STEPS (Structure, Technology, Efficiencies, Processes, Scalability) Formula. His book, The Success Guide to Building Your Coaching Empire, provides entrepreneurs with a step-by-step guide to building a successful coaching business.

For more information on the BLN Network and to join the community, visit their website at https://www.blncommunity.com.

JR Spear is the founder of CREED Consulting, Business Leaders Network, and the host of the Daily Creed Podcast, broadcasting live every Monday on the Inspired Choices Network. Dedicated to empowering small business owners, he’s created a comprehensive platform dedicated to helping authors, speakers, and coaches make more money by finding more and better leads for their business. JR is the author of The Success Guide to Building Your Coaching Empire, JR Spear’s focus is on breaking limited beliefs that keep individuals from achieving personal and professional success, helping entrepreneurs gain clarity and confidence to attract the perfect clients and achieve success.