Rayhan Miah, aged 30 from Camden, and formerly known as Alamin Kazi, died after the motorcycle he was on hit the kerb before crashing into street railings in Commercial Road, E3 at around 2.20am on March 20.

Metropolitan Police Service (MPS) officers gave first aid but sadly Mr Miah died at the scene.

A post-mortem examination was held on 22 March and an inquest has been formally opened and adjourned.

A 29-year-old man who was also on the motorbike sustained serious injuries and was taken to hospital.

Witnesses said police officers performed CPR on Mr Kazi but he died at the scene.

His motorbike was being chased by police cars at the time after failing to stop, police said.

MyLondon reported that the 30-year-old left behind a wife and a two-week baby girl with a family member telling the site “everyone is devastated”.

Mr Miah had been jailed under his former name for being part of a “prolific” family gang stealing up to ten motorbikes a day which were then used to rob mobile phones and cameras from pedestrians across Islington, Camden and Westminster.

He was 23 when he was jailed for three and a half years after admitting two charges of robbery, charges of handling stolen motorbikes and scooters and a mobile phone and two charges of theft of a scooter and motorbike and attempted theft of a camera.

Miah and his brothers Khalid Kazi, then 22, and Shalim Kazi, then 19, admitted a total of 25 charges of moped-enabled robbery, stealing mopeds and selling stolen mopeds between them.

Miah, the oldest brother, was told he would have to forfeit £32,850 if deemed to be “living what is considered to be beyond [his] financial means” once he was released from prison after detectives seized £195,000 of stolen property and vehicles from the family.

His LinkedIn profile lists him as a motorbike and car trader “seeking an opportunity in the property industry”.

A police watchdog IOPC spokesman confirmed that shortly before the crash, officers activated their vehicle’s warning equipment after the driver of the motorbike failed to stop for police.

Police briefly pursued the motorbike and it crashed a short time later.

IOPC regional director Amanda Rowe said: “This was a tragic incident in which a young man has sadly lost his life.

“Given a person has died following an incident involving a police pursuit, it’s important that an independent investigation is carried out to look at the actions and decision-making of the officers involved.

“We have been in contact with Mr Miah’s family to explain our role and our thoughts are with them, his loved ones and all those affected by his death.”