Best US savings interest rates for April 2023

All 21 games announced at Nintendo Indie World April 2023 – including some out now | The Sun

How to block someone on WhatsApp | The Sun

Inside the ultimate doomsday prepper camper van that has everything you need to survive World War 3 | The Sun

Moon will cover the Sun in very rare ‘hybrid eclipse’ today – how to watch stunning ‘triple block’ live | The Sun

Reddit scroller: What is the app and how does it work? | The Sun

The Future of Social Media Is a Lot Less Social

I'm a car salesman – how to negotiate the best price for your new motor | The Sun

Experts discuss how to spot and stop family data scams in this week’s Scam Watch with James Walker from Rightly and Louise Baxter from the National Trading Standards Scams Team.

Scammers posing as clairvoyants and psychics are out there every day, tricking vulnerable and often lonely individuals into paying for some fantasy good luck or to avoid something bad. Make sure you see it coming.

Psychic and clairvoyant scammers approach people by post, email, telephone or even face-to-face. Letters can be four or five pages long as the scammer attempts to worm their way into the psyche of their target. The scammer can seemingly predict a positive upcoming event or claim that you are in some sort of trouble, offering you a solution.

The answer to your anxieties could be winning lottery numbers, receiving a lucky charm, or even the removal of a curse that has befallen you. The scammer tells their victim that they’ll help you in return for a fee. And to cap it all, if you refuse to pay, some scammers then threaten to invoke a curse or bad luck charm on you.

Scammers may try and talk you into buying a lucky charm or secret of wealth, and once you’ve handed over your cash, you get sent something of no value or nothing at all. Alternatively, the scammer may warn you of a made-up future event and then make promises to protect you from the outcome in return for ongoing payments.

There are examples out there where scammers use pictures of trustworthy, well known public figures such as actors or TV personalities to be ‘the face’ of these scams. So just because you see someone you recognise, don’t be fooled.

For example, Carole Anne Goodman, aged 77, is a model and actor who lives in West Sussex. She was recently contacted by the National Trading Standards Scams Team who discovered that her image has been used regularly on clairvoyant mailings linked to the name ‘Carmen’ since at least 2017.

Carole confirmed that the image was taken around 15 years ago as a stock photo, to be made available to download by various image libraries. She had no idea that her image was being used in scam mailings designed to defraud victims, who would have felt an emotional connection with ‘Carmen’ and believed it was this lady they were talking to.

Carole is, understandably, horrified by this and has agreed that her story can be used, if it will help prevent more people falling victim to mail scams.

Carole said: “I am horrified to learn that there are criminals out there who line their own pockets with their lies and are so evil in intent and lacking in conscience that they consider it acceptable to cause intense financial damage and distress to others. I am outraged that my image is being used in this way.”

Clairvoyant scams are particularly nasty as they appear to be really personal and are carefully crafted to lure in people who are affected by consumer vulnerability, this can make people more susceptible to fraud and scams and in the current climate there are so many things that can cause this. Many victims genuinely feel they have made a friend who is offering them a better future, whilst handing over hundreds, if not thousands, of pounds. It’s so helpful that Carole has come forward to help, as her story can now be used by people supporting victims of scams to help them to understand that they are, in fact, responding to a scam.

In 2022, 84 percent of scam mail routinely sent in to the NTS Scams Team was clairvoyant scams.

When a person has responded to one scam, e.g. a catalogue scam or lottery scam, their data becomes an ‘asset’ to be bought and sold between criminals. Data lists can be compiled from many sources including open-source data, telephone calls, prize draws, quizzes, surveys etc. Marketing lists can also be bought from legitimate marketing companies.

Clairvoyant scams use many clever tactics to lure their victims, often into repeatedly sending money over many years. These criminals will often:

– Use an image of a kind, wise looking individual to build trust and emotional connection. There are about half a dozen ‘characters’ repeatedly cropping up in current mailings. It is assumed, as with Carole, that these are entirely innocent individuals whose images are being used without their knowledge.

– Personalise their mailings by using first names throughout (via a simple mail merge).

– Create an elaborate story e.g. ‘I awoke in the middle of the night and I was holding a piece of paper with your name on it. I then set myself on a voyage of discovery to find out more about you’. Often these letters cover many sides of A4.

– Offer huge wealth or health benefits, which may be particularly attractive to older people or those with chronic health conditions.

– Create a sense of urgency by giving a deadline by which to respond in order to attain the wealth or good health they are promised.

– Use consumer vulnerability. Victims are often lonely so the criminals will promise luck in love, or will play on their sadness or distress, offering them a way out of their problems. In some cases, victims know it’s a scam but keep responding because of their situations.

– Urge secrecy, imploring their victims to keep quiet. Not only does this prevent relatives/friends stepping in, but criminals know that even the act of talking about an opportunity can make a person realise it’s not genuine.

Offer huge wealth or health benefits, which may be particularly attractive to older people or those with chronic health conditions.

Create a sense of urgency by giving a deadline by which to respond in order to attain the wealth or good health they are promised.

Use consumer vulnerability. Victims are often lonely so the criminals will promise luck in love, or will play on their sadness or distress, offering them a way out of their problems. In some cases, victims know it’s a scam but keep responding because of their situations.

Urge secrecy, imploring their victims to keep quiet. Not only does this prevent relatives/friends stepping in, but criminals know that even the act of talking about an opportunity can make a person realise it’s not genuine.

Don’t miss…

Paypal scam warning as fraudsters ‘drain’ bank accounts[WARNING]

Natwest issues urgent warning as new email scam could drain savings[ALERT]

Lloyds Bank warning as man loses £7,000 in brush with fraudster[REAL LIFE]

Clairvoyant scams can be difficult to avoid, as they often involve convincing and manipulative tactics. However, there are some steps you can take to reduce your chances of falling victim to these scams:

Be sceptical: If something sounds too good to be true, it probably is. Avoid clairvoyants who promise to solve all of your problems or make unrealistic predictions.

Do your research: Before working with a clairvoyant, research their background and reputation. Look for reviews and feedback from past clients to get an idea of their level of skill and trustworthiness.

Be cautious of free readings: Many clairvoyants offer free readings to lure people in, but these can be a tactic to get your personal information or pressure you into paying for additional services.

Avoid giving personal information: Be wary of clairvoyants who ask for personal information such as your full name, address, or social security number. This information can be used for identity theft or other fraudulent purposes.

Don’t make impulsive decisions: Take the time to think through any decisions before agreeing to work with a clairvoyant or paying for their services. Don’t feel pressured to make a decision right away, and don’t be afraid to say no if you don’t feel comfortable.

Remember that honest clairvoyants won’t pressure you into making decisions or providing personal information, and they will not make unrealistic promises. If you have any doubts about a clairvoyant, it’s best to keep on the side of caution and seek guidance from someone you trust.

Question: I listened to the radio the other day and I heard one of the reporters talking about holidays scams. I want to book a holiday for the summer, so I need to know what to look out for. Can you help?

We all love the idea of a bargain get away, but criminals use fake social media listings and fake travel websites to steal your money.

Criminals advertise flights, villa rentals, holiday lets, caravan or motorhome listings, and other travel accommodation that don’t exist. They advertise cheap travel deals and offers at too good to be true prices.

It’s only when you’ve parted with money and then don’t get to go on the holiday you realise the scam.

Even with the coronavirus pandemic, £2.2 million was lost by victims in 2020 to 2021.

We would advise to only use reputable companies and if you can pay on a credit card to ensure you get extra protection. And, check out any website before you enter any personal information.

Know who you’re dealing with. If you’ve only ever met someone online or are unsure of the legitimacy of a business, take some time to do a bit more research. Do a Google image search on photos or search the internet for others who may have had dealings with them. If a message or email comes from a friend and it seems unusual, contact your friend directly to check that it was really them that sent it.

If you think someone is trying to get your personal information or scam you, report it to Action Fraud, the UK’s national fraud reporting centre by calling 0300 123 20 40 or by visiting www.actionfraud.police.uk. If you are in Scotland, contact Police Scotland on 101.

Police chief accused of hypocrisy over hunting ban for officers

Theresa May: Fox hunting should be a free vote for parliamentA Wiltshire policing chief has come under fire from the...

All 21 games announced at Nintendo Indie World April 2023 – including some out now | The Sun

How to block someone on WhatsApp | The Sun

Moon will cover the Sun in very rare ‘hybrid eclipse’ today – how to watch stunning ‘triple block’ live | The Sun

Experts discuss how to spot and stop family data scams in this week's Scam Watch with James Walker from Rightly and Louise...

Best US savings interest rates for April 2023

We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.