Mailitis Architects and architect J. Pogas Birojs have undertaken the reconstruction of Mežaparks Open-Air Stage, nestled within a Latvian forest. As the previous stage was built in 1955 under the Soviet regime, it didn’t meet today’s acoustic standards and safety requirements. The new structure sees a spacious venue developed specifically for a large-scale performance that brings together a huge choir of 20,000 singers from all over Latvia. This event is for the Latvian Nationwide Song and Dance Celebration, included in the UNESCO Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity.

According to the architects, ‘inspiration was found in ancient Baltic culture and learning from nature by constructing a mythology of the Silver Forest.’ Thus, they conceived a forest-like framework made of metal structures resembling tree trunks with branches, and wooden shields that mimic the leaves. Apart from the strong symbolism, the construction of the roof enhances the acoustics by dispersing echoes and directing the sound, where it is most needed. ‘Forest acoustics create even and spacious echoes providing one of the most suitable environments for choral singing,’ added the team.

The reconstruction aimed to improve the acoustics and enlarge the capacity of both the choir and the viewers. The artificial grove organically blends with the surrounding topography of the natural forest. The architects (see more here) opted for simple materials highlighting the Latvian aesthetic tradition, and calm curved volumes to resonate with the dunes around it.

‘Biomimicry of the forest has helped to find unique solutions to solve fading of the sound and uneven echoes of the extraordinarily large choir.’ The spatial analogy with the forest improves the amphitheater’s acoustics and hones a specific sound that local chorists have described as a unique ‘silver sound’.

The new capacity now reaches 20,000 singers on the choir tribune and 30,000 seats in the audience field. For extra audiences, the benches can be removed to allow a standing audience of 70,000. Below the chorist tribune are indoor spaces that can function as concert, conference and exhibition halls, as well as supporting facilities. The venue is transformed into a cultural and leisure hub open to the community on a daily basis, and provides adaptable space for performances, sports and events all year round.

a silver grove that blends with its natural scenery | image by Ansis Starks

individual columns rise up and form a forest-like framework | image by Madara Gritane