Veteran Port Adelaide coach Ken Hinkley launched an impassioned defence of teen star Jason Horne-Francis after the young gun was once again booed by spectators.

Hinkley also had a crack at sections of the media who he claims have unfairly targeted the 19-year-old since his controversial exit from North Melbourne.

Horne-Francis was selected by the Kangaroos with the No.1 draft pick in 2021, but played only one season at the club before requesting a trade to South Australia.

READ MORE: 'Tie his hair up' - 'Ridiculous' penalty blasted

READ MORE: Import's 'try of the year' puts Super Rugby on notice

His start to life with the Power has been ﻿fruitful on the field but come with plenty of noise off it. He was bizarrely booed during a game against Collingwood, and copped the same treatment as he helped Port Adelaide down the Western Bulldogs by 14 points on Saturday night.

When the full-time siren sounded Hinkley was seen making a bee-line for Horne-Francis and directing an emotional message to him.

In his press conference shortly afterwards, the coach was fired up.

"Jason Horne-Francis is 19. Some parts really annoy me about the way people treat him. It's annoying me," Hinkley said.

"He's never going to play four quarters every week. He's 19 years old. If you're treating my 19-year-old son the way some people have treated him... I'd be embarrassed by my performance if I was those people.

"I think it's been really unfair. The kid made a courageous decision to come home. Let the kid play footy. He's 19."

Hinkley was asked to clarify if he was referring to the booing on Saturday night.

"I'm talking about lots of things. I'm talking about people who write stories every week, talk stories every week and I'm talking about the treatment that they gave him, at times, tonight," he said.

"Without making a big deal of it, the kid's trying, he's giving his best. He's 19. Stop treating him like he's 28 and treat the kid with some respect.

"And I tell you what, some people who put pressure on kids in this game need to have a good hard look at themselves."

The Power next host West Coast Eagles on Saturday.

For a daily dose of the best of the breaking news and exclusive content from Wide World of Sports, subscribe to our newsletter by clicking here!