Are you looking for a quick and delicious meal that will nourish your body and satisfy your taste buds? Look no further than this quick and delicious Mediterranean-Style nourish bowl recipe!  This versatile dish is perfect for busy weeknights or lazy weekends. For this recipe, I will show you how I use High Liner® Signature Cuts™ Crispy Breaded Sole Fillets to create a simple and delicious meal for my family without spending hours in the kitchen.

This Mediterranean-Style nourish bowl is packed with nutrient-dense ingredients and bursting  with flavour. Whether you’re a seasoned pro or new to the nourish bowl trend, you won’t want to  miss this easy and satisfying recipe. So, grab a bowl and let’s get started! I’ve been adding High  Liner’s products to my grocery list for years now. It’s a staple in our home. As a busy mom that  works from home, I love using High Liner® Signature Cuts™ for a quick and delicious meal  option during the busy week, and it’s made right here in Canada! I love that  there are so many quick meal options with one box, and it contains at least 7g of protein per  serving!

For the Mediterranean-Style nourish bowl recipe I’m using the High Liner® Signature Cuts™ Crispy Breaded Sole Fillets. These premium sole fillets are wrapped in a  crunchy golden breadcrumb. It’s crispy on the outside, with moist, flaky fish on the inside. They  are wild caught in the North Pacific and North Atlantic Ocean.

*  2 cups of couscous cooked to your preference.

*  Tzatziki sauce (add plain 2 cups Greek yogurt in a bowl, 1 cup of grated cucumber, 1/2  of lemon juice, olive oil, and minced garlic, and salt to taste. Mix well and chill for at least  an hour). The sauce can also be made the day before to save even more time.

Rinse, drain, and dry the chickpeas. Coat with spices and olive oil. Bake at 400 for 25 minutes.

Cook couscous as per your preference (can also use rice) and set aside.

Wash and cut all your veggies into small bite sizes.

I start assembling with a layer of couscous, followed by placing all the veggies, including the spicy chickpeas in a circle. In the middle, I place my I place my High Liner® Signature Cuts™ Crispy Breaded Sole Fillets and a spoon full (or two) of the delicious tzatziki sauce. Enjoy

Grab a box of High Liner® Signature Cuts™ Crispy Breaded Sole Fillets at your local grocery store and try this recipe! What delicious and quick recipes would you create with High Liner® Signature Cuts™ Crispy Breaded Sole Fillets?

Be sure you are subscribed so that you don’t miss a thing!