BANGKOK (AP) — A giant panda on long-term loan from China has died in a zoo in northern Thailand, six months before she was due to return home. Officials from the Chiang Mai Zoo said Wednesday the cause of Lin Hui's death was not immediately clear, but she appeared to have become ill Tuesday morning, when her nose was seen bleeding after a meal. A zoo veterinarian, who described Lin Hui as being at an advanced age at 21, said she had shown no signs of ill health before becoming sick. Lin Hui’s male mate, Chuang Chuang, who was kept with her at the Chiang Mai Zoo, died there in 2019 at the age of 19.

LOS ANGELES (AP) — A coroner's report says singer and rapper Aaron Carter accidentally drowned in his bathtub as a result of sedatives he’d taken and gas used in spray cleaners that he had inhaled. Carter is the younger brother of the Backstreet Boys’ Nick Carter. He was found submerged and dead in the bathtub of his home in Lancaster, California, on Nov. 5. According to the autopsy report from the Los Angeles County Medical Examiner-Coroner, a medical sedative was found in his system, as was a compressed gas that the coroner says is commonly used as a propellant in air spray cleaners. The report says the gas “can induce feelings of euphoria when inhaled.”

MONTPELIER, Vt. (AP) — Each April, the country’s smallest capital city goes all out to celebrate poetry.  Storefronts and restaurant windows around Montpelier, Vermont, are graced with poems written by Vermonters of all ages, poets read their works aloud at events, poetry workshops meet and, this year, the Kellogg Hubbard Library in Montpelier hosted its first poetry parade. Other cities around the country celebrate National Poetry Month in their own way. West Hollywood, California, is holding a poetry “spa day,” the New York Public Library hosts free workshops and the winning poems from a contest in Alexandria, Virginia, are displayed on city buses and trolleys in April and May.

SAN FRANCISCO (AP) — Twitter has quietly removed a policy against the “targeted misgendering or deadnaming of transgender individuals.” The move is raising concerns that the Elon Musk-owned platform is becoming less safe for marginalized groups. Twitter enacted the policy against deadnaming, or using a transgender person’s name before they transitioned, as well as purposefully using the wrong gender for someone as a form of harassment, in 2018. TikTok and Meta both have similar policies on the books.

When Kaylin Gillis and her friends took a wrong turn into an upstate New York driveway last weekend, they wound up on the property of a man bitter about people driving onto his land by mistake. That's according to a neighbor of the New York landowner, Kevin Monahan. The county sheriff says Monahan opened fire on the car carrying Gillis on Saturday night, killing her. Monahan faces a murder charge. His neighbor said he had become more and more upset in recent years at people making wrong turns into his driveway. Monahan's lawyer says the slaying was a “tragedy” but that his client is not a villain.

HARTFORD, Conn. (AP) — A group of Connecticut divers have discovered the wreckage of an experimental submarine that was built in 1907 and later scuttled in Long Island Sound. The Defender, a 92-foot boat, was found Sunday off the coast of Old Saybrook by a team led by Richard Simon, a commercial diver from Coventry, Connecticut. Simon spent several months going over known sonar and underwater mapping surveys of the bottom of the sound to identify any anomaly that fit the size of the sub. His team found the sub in over 150 feet of water and plans to spend the summer photographing and documenting the wreck.

WASHINGTON (AP) — A curious toddler on Tuesday earned the title of one of the tiniest White House intruders after he squeezed through the metal fencing on the north side of the executive mansion. U. S. Secret Service Uniformed Division officers, who are responsible for security at the White House, walked across the North Lawn to retrieve the tot and reunite him with his parents on Pennsylvania Avenue. Access to the complex was briefly restricted while officers conducted the reunification. Officers questioned the parents before allowing them to continue on their way. It may be the first successful intrusion onto the complex since the White House fence was doubled in height to roughly 13 feet (3.96-meters) after a series of security breaches over the last several years.

SEOUL, South Korea (AP) — J-Hope, a member of K-pop sensation BTS, has entered a South Korean boot camp to start his 18-month compulsory military service. He's become the group’s second member to join the country’s army. Hybe Corp., the parent company of BTS’ management agency, says the 29-year-old singer entered the camp on Tuesday. In December, BTS member Jin became the band’s first to enter the army after revoking his request to delay his conscription. There was a heated public debate in 2022 over whether to offer special exemptions of mandatory military service for BTS members.

BOWDOIN, Maine (AP) — State police in Maine say four people were fatally shot in a home shortly before gunfire broke out on a busy highway about 25 miles away, wounding three.  Police say the shootings are connected but they aren’t discussing a motive or identifying victims. Authorities charged a man with four counts of murder Tuesday evening. The bodies were found earlier Tuesday in a home in the town of Bowdoin, about 35 miles north of Portland. Police say the three people were shot in their cars shortly afterward on Interstate 295 in Yarmouth, just outside Portland. Police closed the busy highway while they canvassed the area.

SALEM, Ore. (AP) — Oregon’s pioneering experiment with legalized magic mushrooms has taken a step closer to reality as the first “facilitators” who will accompany clients as they experience the drug received their state licenses. Voters approved the regulated use of psilocybin in a 2020 ballot measure, and anticipation has been building for the day when a person can gain access to the drug that studies indicate has therapeutic value. Hundreds of people have invested thousands of dollars apiece, and some worry the rollout is proceeding too slowly. No service centers — where customers would access psilocybin  — have been licensed. Nor has any laboratory where the products must be tested for potency.