Govt Giving Loan of Rs 1 Lakh Under PM Mudra Yojana? PIB Fact Check Debunks Fake Claim

Nagaland State Lottery Result Today 6 PM Live, Dear Hill Wednesday Lottery Sambad Result of 19.04.2023, Watch Live Lucky Draw Winners List

Teacher Records Sex Videos Inside UK Schools! Wales Woman Films XXX Clips of Herself Masturbating With Vibrator in School Classroom and Toilet, Probe On

Shah Rukh Khan in Black Sherwani, Madhuri Dixit in Jacket-Gharara Pants – For Eid 2023, Take a Cue From Bollywood Celebrities To Glam Up Your Festive Outfit

If you are confused about what to wear this Eid-Ul-Fitr, then you should definitely take a cue from our Bollywood celebrities including Shah Rukh Khan, Madhuri Dixit and Sara Ali Khan.

Mumbai, April 17: Eid is around the corner and everyone is waiting to bond over sumptuous meals, meet and greet friends and relatives. The joyous festival also sees people looking their best in ethnic ensembles. From women donning elegant Anarkali suits to men unleashing their fashionable avatars in kurtas, Muslims around the world leave no stone unturned to add glam quotient to the festivities. Love Nihari, Kebabs and Butter Chicken? Visit Jama Masjid Area for Lip-Smacking Foods!If you are confused about what to wear this Eid-Ul-Fitr, then you should definitely take a cue from our Bollywood celebrities. We rounded up some of the best ethnic looks worn by actors from tinsel town, check out.This Anarkali suit worn by Sonam Kapoor is perfect for Eid celebrations. If black is your colour, then you should surely buy something like this suit. Sonam's suit is from the collection of designer Masaba Gupta's label House of Masaba. Don't miss to check out the chands embroidered on the suit. Sonam chose to complete her regal look with a pearl jewellery set, comprising a choker, floral earrings and a ring.

Don't want to go extra with your Eid outfit? Worry not, we have got you covered. Sara Ali Khan, who loves wearing ethnic outfits, is sending out major festive vibes in this white gharara. Simple yet classy right? She paired her suit with white jutis and minimal accessories.

ain’t no one giving competition to shah rukh khan in this black sherwani pic.twitter.com/qjdJjNNwjl

Remember when Kajol offers a fashion tip for men, specifically Shah Rukh Khan, in Kabhi Khushi Kabhi Gham saying, "Lucknow da kurta-Pathani salwar, tab lage mard warna lage bekaar?" SRK did not let go of the advice as he made a dashing entry in black sherwani in "Bano Ki Saheli" song. Men out there can recreate this evergreen look for Eid.

Want to go all-black this festive season? This ethnic ensemble worn by Hrithik Roshan will definitely make you look like a star on Eid. Hrithik layered the outfit with a sold jacket, which is the latest trend in men's ethnic fashion.

Indo-western outfits can never go out of fashion. If you want to give a modern twist to an ethnic outfit, then check out this ensemble of Madhuri Dixit Nene. Madhuri looked exquisite in a gold-embellished gharara jacket that showcased intricate threadwork and adornments. The contemporary design of her sleeveless jacket and gharara pants made for a perfect fusion of traditional and modern fashion.

These Bollywood-inspired outfits will help you make a statement effortlessly on Eid.

Fashion

Eid al-Fitr 2023 Fashion Ideas: Kisi Ka Bhai Kisi Ki Jaan's Palak Tiwari Has the Perfect Wardrobe for the Occasion!

Bollywood

Kisi Ka Bhai Kisi Ki Jaan Movie: Review, Cast, Plot, Trailer, Release Date – All You Need To Know About Salman Khan, Pooja Hegde, Venkatesh Daggubati’s Film!

Festivals & Events

Eid 2023 Date: Eid al-Fitr Moon Sighting in Saudi Arabia, UAE, Pakistan and Other Countries Tomorrow

'It Takes Time To Settle Down in Marriage': Supreme Court Refuses To Use Powers of Article 142 To Dissolve 40-Day Union of CoupleTeacher Records Sex Videos Inside UK Schools! Wales Woman Films XXX Clips of Herself Masturbating With Vibrator in School Classroom and Toilet, Probe OnHeatwave in April in Asian History: Severe Heatwave Causes Deaths, School Closures in India, Record-Breaking Temperatures in ChinaChandra Grahan 2023 Date and Time: All You Need to Know About Forthcoming Penumbral Lunar Eclipse Event			Read More

Mumbai Water Cut News Update: Good News for Mumbaikars! BMC Rolls Back 15% Water Cut Decision, Normal Supply of Water To Begin From April 23Peacock Attacks Two Persons Stealing Eggs From Its Nest, Rare Retaliation Video of Blue Bird Goes ViralMadhya Pradesh Train Collision: Two Goods Trains Collide With Each Other Near Singhpur Railway Station in Shahdol; Motormen Injured, Two Railway Workers Feared Trapped (See Pics)Salary Hike for Cognizant Employees: IT Giant Announces Appraisal, Raises Pay of Over 3 Lakh Workers in Third Increase in Last 18 MonthsDisney Layoffs 2023: Entertainment Giant Planning Another Round of Sackings, To Eliminate Thousands of Jobs This Month, Say Reports

Today's Trends

Benadryl TikTok Challenge: What Is the Viral Benadryl Challenge? Second Death Due to Dangerous Trend As Johnson & Johnson Issues Statement Over Dangers of Online Challenge

Amid Fear of Layoffs, Bain Offering New Recruits USD 20,000 To Become Yoga Instructors, Go on Safari in Bid To Delay Their Start Dates: Report

Salary Hike for Cognizant Employees: IT Giant Announces Appraisal, Raises Pay of Over 3 Lakh Workers in Third Increase in Last 18 Months

Disney Layoffs 2023: Entertainment Giant Planning Another Round of Sackings, To Eliminate Thousands of Jobs This Month, Say Reports

India News | Is GDP Overestimated or Underestimated? Congress' Jairam Ramesh Highlights Article by Central Statistical Office Ex-DGsIndia News | As India Becomes World's Most Populous Nation, Cries Grow Louder About Depleting ResourcesHow to Avoid the Crowds on SantoriniLatest News | Paint Companies to Log 10-12 Pc Growth in Revenue This Fiscal: Report