ShopFollow

Marking the first full quarter with Netflix’s new ad-filled option.

Netflix recently revealed its financial report for Q1 of 2023. After being in hot waters last year for declining subscribers, the streaming giant has reported that it has added 1.75 million net new subscribers in the first quarter of the year.

The numbers come after Netflix introduced its ad-filled option for a lower cost. The ad-supported tier launch pushed the subscriber increase. Q1 of 2023 marked the first full quarter Netflix made its ad-filled option available to subscribers. In the last quarter of 2022, Netflix gained a whopping 7.66 million subscribers. The uptick shows Netflix is on an upward trajectory, ending with a total global subscriber count of 232.5 million by Q1 2023.

Netflix has recently shifted its focus away from subscription growth and more toward revenue. While the newly added subscribers this quarter is still minor in comparison, it does account for 4.9% year-over-year growth in subscribers for the streamer. The breakdown saw paid memberships rise by 100,000 across the U. S. and Canada, 640,000 throughout Europe, the Middle East and Africa and 1.5 million in the Asia-Pacific region. There was a decline in subscribers in Latin America by 450,000. These numbers directly translated to revenues with U.S. and Canada operations growing 8% versus the same period last year. In a statement, Netflix said, “We’re on track to meet our full year 2023 financial objectives. For Q2’23, we forecast revenue of $8.2B, up 3% year over year, or 6% growth on an F/X neutral basis. We’re pleased with the most recent launches of paid sharing, and while we could have launched broadly in Q1, we found opportunities to improve the experience for members. We learn more with each rollout and we’ve incorporated the latest learnings, which we think will lead to even better results. To implement these changes, we shifted out the timing of the broad launch from late Q1 to Q2. While this means that some of the expected membership growth and revenue benefit will fall in Q3 rather than Q2, we believe this will result in a better outcome for both our members and our business.”

In other entertainment news, Quentin Tarantino confirms he is “ready to quit” making films.

What to Read Next

Its mega-brands like Louis Vuitton, DIor, Celine, Loewe and more all showed remarkable performances.

Netflix To Launch 40 More Mobile Game Titles in 2023

86 additional games are currently being developed in-house and externally.

Everything Coming To and Leaving Netflix in April 2023

Led by the premiere of A24’s ‘BEEF’ starring Steven Yeun and Ali Wong.

Everything Coming To and Leaving Netflix in February 2023

Led by the premiere of ‘You’ season four.

An expansive collaboration included nods to the 2023 Miami Grand Prix, Monaco Grand Prix, and Las Vegas Grand Prix.

The New Balance 550 Is Reimagined With Weathered Detailing

Detailed Look at the Jordan 1 Low PE "Michigan"

Centered around the school’s signature navy and maize color scheme.

Expected to arrive in the coming weeks.

Viral AI-Generated Drake and The Weeknd Song Removed From Streaming Following Universal Music Group Statement

“Heart On My Sleeve” was streamed over 600,000 times on Spotify prior to its removal.

Sitting down with the legendary actor to discuss season three of the show, his love for directing and what’s next for High Magistrate Greef Karga.

Less than 100 units were produced.

The U.S. debut of her ethereal installation, ‘Dots Obsession’.

The multi-dimensional artist shares a preview of the F&F-exclusive kicks, his inspiration behind the designs and the connection to his upcoming album ‘F65’.

More ▾

Hypebeast® is a registered trademark of Hypebeast Hong Kong Ltd.