The National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) has urged underwriting firms to prepare for the adoption of the International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS 17) as the transition date is set for June 2023.

The National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) has urged underwriting firms to prepare for the adoption of the International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS 17) as the transition date is set for June 2023.

Members of the Publicity and Communications Sub-Committee revealed this while briefing journalists on the outcome of the 14th Insurers Committee Meeting held in Lagos.

According to the members, IFRS 17 establishes the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of insurance contracts within the scope of the standards.

Speaking on the IFRS 17, the Head of Corporate Communications and Market Development, NAICOM, ‘Rasaaq Salami, said the commission would ensure that operators comply.

Salami said the commission, in its efforts to get underwriting firms ready for the new financial reporting model, had set up sub-working groups to facilitate the migration in the industry.

The Commissioner for Insurance, Sunday Thomas, at the meeting urged board members of each insurance firm to get prepared for the IFRS 17 implementation, pointing out that the deadline for migration was already at hand.

“You are, therefore, required to ensure that your entities are in full compliance and ready for the dateline,” the commissioner charged.

He also tasked directors of all insurance companies to take the issue of industry development seriously and work with their management teams to achieve set targets.

“The commission is working assiduously to open up the market particularly the retail end, conducting engagements with various agencies and state governments on the need to increase insurance culture in Nigeria,” he said.

Ahead of the inauguration of the 10th National Assembly, Senators of the opposition political parties are already meeting to decide on who to support as the Senate President.

International and indigenous operators, yesterday, decried poor implementation of the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA), insisting overlapping regulations in the Act remain a disincentive.

• NEC expels Arambabi Abayomi, suspends eight others over anti-party activities The Presidential Candidate of the Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi, has urged Nigerians to remain calm and steadfast in the journey to reclaim the mandate of a New Nigeria. A statement by the Obi/Datti media team said Obi in spirit-lifting words to Nigerians, particularly…

Cross River State Governor, Ben Ayade, has decried the stealing of government assets in the twilight of his administration. The governor, who spoke, yesterday, at the state executive chamber of the Governor’s Office..

Governor of Abia State and Visitor to the Abia State University Uturu (ABSU), Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu, yesterday, directed the management of the university to immediately nullify/cancel the 350 per cent school fees increase it made.

Dr Samuel Onyeka, an insurance consultant, has backed the upward review of the third-party motor insurance premium by the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM).

Nigeria loses N8tr to FX arbitrage in three years

From 2020 to last year, Nigeria lost, at least, N8 trillion to rent seekers who explore the multiple rates in the foreign exchange (FX) market to rip off the country, data obtained by The Guardian yesterday have shown.

The Insurance Industry Committee (IIC) has called on underwriting firms to engage banks to drive Bancassurance in line with the newly revised guidelines released by the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) to support the growth of the segment.

The recent adjustment in the cost of vehicle insurance, especially third party insurance, has come with some controversies bordering on the justification for the increase, timing, economy and value for money for services rendered.

Underwriters have expressed support for the 200 per cent upward review of third-party vehicle insurance premiums by the National Insurance Corporation (NAICOM).

Sunday Olorundare Thomas is the Commissioner for Insurance and Chief Executive Officer of the National Insurance Commission. In this interview with FEMI ADEKOYA, he speaks on various issues affecting the insurance industry. The National Insurance Commission recently increased the premium on third party motor insurance from N5,000 to N15,000. What informed that decision? People talk…