After hinting at a change for several weeks, the Maryland football program announced on Monday afternoon it is promoting its iconic “Script Terps” throwback uniforms to full-time status this fall.

“I’m very excited to announce that we are moving back to an iconic uniform, a classic look, something that our fans have been clamoring for for quite some time,” athletic director Damon Evans said in a statement. “When I think about our illustrious past as it relates to Maryland football, you think about Bobby Ross and Ralph Friedgen and the championship years wearing the ‘Script Terps’ uniform.

“The ‘Script Terps’ uniform embodies who we are, it symbolizes what it means to be a Maryland football player. I know our head coach, Michael Locksley, someone who grew up in this area, in the DMV, worshiped the Terps in that uniform. Now it’s time for us to pay that homage and push forward, so I’m happy to be bringing back this iconic look.”

Maryland originally wore a white “Script Terps” wordmark on red helmets from 1982-91, as well as on white helmets with red letters from 2001-10. The Terrapins also a camouflage “Script Terps” on a white helmet for one game in 2009 and a black helmet for one game in 2010.

Locksley reintroduced the red helmet in 2019 as part of a throwback uniform, which included a red jersey with faux-mesh numbers and classic black, white and gold stripes on the sleeves. It was paired with white pants with red and black stripes down the sides.

The Terrapins then wore the road version of the throwback uniform for the first time in 2021, pairing the red helmet with a white jersey and red pants. They’ve since worn the home and road versions once in each of the last two seasons.

The “Script Terps” look replaces the “Maryland Pride” uniforms the program debuted in 2013, which featured an airbrushed state flag on the helmet and state flag sleeve caps on the jersey.

The Terrapins are 3-3 in the “Script Terps” uniforms over the last four seasons, including wins over Michigan State, Rutgers and West Virginia and losses to Michigan, Penn State and Rutgers.

Seeing as they were members of the ACC when they previously wore the design, this fall will be the first time they don the “Script Terps” helmet against Big Ten opponents like Indiana, Ohio State, Illinois, Northwestern and Nebraska.