Today I found myself some time to read a chapter in a book I bought a year ago. I had promised myself I would try out comedy. Down where we vacation there is a place that gives you 5 minutes on a stage. Open mic night it is called. Some read poetry. Others sing and still others dance. Me, I want to perform a 5 minute comedy routine. Why do this? To see if I can bomb on a stage.

They say you can’t write funny if you don’t attempt to perform funny. The mechanics needed to get on that stage and do your bit to a cold audience, likely learned and honed. Momma isn’t anything but raw and ambitious. My skills started with a friends VHS recorder and our creativity. His skills talented and easy and myself feeling in the shadows. Ones I created myself. I am the light now. A light of my funny shadows?

In the serious quest to prepare myself fit for the stage of 5 minutes, I have a few books I am reading and working through to set some rules. A first comedy law in Momma’s mind is: The truth and pain of life creates comedy. We love to laugh during misery. It’s almost an American humans requirement, to find that crack in the rubble and fill it with laughter to survive the knocks. The more I didn’t want to see truth and pain in the same light the more I couldn’t stop. Pain is funny. It’s a truth I can’t ignore.

Shit, I am a comedian. I am angry that I wrote my story to be a surpressed non-comedic life my fluffies*. Or a scared rabbit. That is an irony to myself. How did I become a Bunny Queen in my garden if I am a scared rabbit of the stage? The point to my rambling questions is simple, can I bomb on that very stage I speak of. I need to break a toe, stub my nose, get my tailbone out of shape. Whatever those industry terms are. Ya, I need one of those moments.

I’m not looking for laughs. I am not even looking for a career. I just want the sweat, the anticipation, the hot lights, the beating heart and to gain a moment in time I denied myself as a child, opening night jitters. Nope I need to do this for myself. I am Momma and I do know myself. So, for me to do this I need that 5 minutes of a few jokes that are well timed and aptly choreographed and staged. I need the training montage set to music and than the knocking back a beer when it’s over.

Doing this my Momma way, I started at the beginning. My book from Amazon. One day delivery by the way. I was feeling elated at the prospect of returning one year later to our vacation spot and standing on that stage. I have less than 3 weeks to get it done if it will be this year. I hope to at least perform for my housemates. HA that is a tough group. A person not typically my audience and my loving husband who, while honest, knows better than to give me too much truth or he will feel my great humorous pain.

Here goes the step-one exercise using emotion words as instructed:

You know what’s weird about being an online sexual life coach, you spend most of your time acting like an online emotional crutch.

You know what's scary about being an online sexual life coach, you just know your profile pictures are being used as likely catfish pictures.

You know what’s hard about being an online sexual life coach, no accountability when you are suppose to be the hammer.

You know what’s stupid about being an online sexual life coach, you are suppose to interact with the person and physically is way different then virtually.

There you go. That is the beginning and my commitment to finish chapter two. See how they instruct Momma to find the truth and the pain in these basic literal sentences. Is comedy literal? I suppose it is. The truth of the matter is Momma needs the pain of exposing her humor to a likely empty room of strangers, who could care less who I am, or what I am nervously projecting from that stage. I need the exposure to the pain and perhaps find the truth in comedy writing. I shall go forth in the name of laughter and bomb it.

The Momma Dom, Training to ignite the stage.

Fluffies* My readers and friend in a lot of places. I might need the support if Momma is singed a bit. I really believe I am gonna smell like smoke when I meet my higher powers. She is going to be holding a bowl of spaghetti with meatballs, asking Momma why she just has to stand in the flames to evolve.

Momma isn’t a phoenix type. She is a Leo. She is a fire sign. She is a Chinese zodiac rabbit. You decide which rules me. I am going to find out what to do with my “you know what’s”

I know why I do it. Stand in the flames. To get a view only a comedian would understand. We aren’t normal. 👽 You all need us to help you accept the truth and laugh til it hurts. Ok. 5 minutes huh?