Good morning! Here is today’s weather forecast from the National Weather Service.

Today: Partly cloudy with a slight chance of snow showers. Highs 38 to 48. West winds 10 to 15 mph with gusts up to 30 mph.

Tonight: Mostly cloudy with a slight chance of snow showers. Lows 19 to 29. Southwest winds 10 to 15 mph. Gusts up to 35 mph in the evening.

Wednesday: Mostly cloudy with a slight chance of snow showers. Highs 43 to 53. Southwest winds 10 to 20 mph. Gusts up to 35 mph in the afternoon.

Wednesday Night: Partly cloudy. Slight chance of snow showers in the evening. Lows 20 to 30.

Thursday And Thursday Night: Partly cloudy. Highs 50 to 60. Lows 25 to 35.

Friday And Friday Night: Partly cloudy. Highs 54 to 64. Lows 28 to 38.

Saturday And Saturday Night: Partly cloudy. Highs 60 to 70. Lows 32 to 42.

Sunday: Partly cloudy. Slight chance of showers in the afternoon. Highs 62 to 72.

At Smith Properties, we pride ourselves on being specialists in bringing buyers and home sellers together throughout Lassen and Plumas County. Like the Smith Properties team itself, our website has been designed to provide you with the information that you need to make all the right real estate decisions. So please check out our site here and then give us a call. At Smith Properties we are here to make your real estate experience one you’ll remember…for all the right reasons.

MLS #202200515 Asking Price $99,900

Large partially fenced vacant lot in Litchfield with reserved easement. 9.92 acres about an hour away from Reno, NV. Beautiful 360-degree views of mountains and valleys. Electric is available at property line. Easy access to well.

46X46 pole barn ready for farm animals or storing recreational vehicles. Land needs to be cleared for new mobile home or a permanent home. Come with your ideas and call today!

MLS #202200511 Asking Price $275,000

Home, sweet, home! This well maintained home on over three acres is ready for you! An open concept you will appreciate as soon as you walk in the front door. Newer vinyl flooring, carpet in the master bedroom, window blinds throughout! All the bedrooms have walk in closets and ceiling fans.

The home has central heat and air conditioning (3 years old) for the warm summer days. Large two car garage with storage room. Well built pumphouse plus extra storage shed with power. Full RV hook ups out back. Beautiful back Trex deck with well maintained fence and lawn area. Also the entire property has been maintained with the mower. Don’t miss this amazing opportunity! Call today!

MLS #202300077 Asking Price $239,900

Welcome home! This hard to find three bed, two full bath, with bonus office is ready for you. The front room and kitchen have an open concept with kitchen island. The house has both forced air and wood stove which are more than enough to keep you warm and cozy in the winter. This spacious property has 28+ private acres by Whiskey Canyon Creek that runs seasonally.

There are multiple outbuildings, 8 stall barn with a tack room and additional work room, multiple cross fenced areas, a round pen, area with raised garden beds, and so much more. This is a perfect home for a 4H family and plenty of space for all of your outdoor toys and RV. Your country oasis awaits!!

Clean three bedroom, one bath home on the desirable Parkdale Avenue. Nice lawn in front with mature trees. Two large bedrooms and a large living room. Two storage sheds in the backyard for your landscaping needs.

Cute double level deck off the kitchen for your morning coffee or evening entertaining. Central forced air heating and dual pane vinyl windows. Low cost of ownership with minimal insurance requirements. In the uptown Susanville area, so a short walk to all the uptown shops. Call today for an appointment!

MLS #202300101 Asking Price $198,500

FULLY FURNISHED 2 bedroom 1 bath home, with a potential for a 3rd room or office space! Come take a look at this home that was recently renovated on the inside, new exterior paint less than 2 years ago. Large backyard. Lovely entry way with large closet, newer carpet and flooring throughout the house. Newer appliances, newer cabinets and countertops, and an updated bathroom.

This home is perfect for someone looking for a furnished home or something with easy maintenance. Looking for your first home or looking for a possible investment home for an Airbnb, then this is the perfect home for you. Call today to schedule a tour

MLS #202300107 Asking Price $369,000

Views of Diamond Mountain to entertain your family and friends with this beautiful home! Large home has 3 bedrooms, 3 full baths, and two living rooms. Upstairs features spacious living room, with open dining area, kitchen and a separate eat in space, 3 bedrooms, and two baths, with laundry closet, along with a pellet stove. Downstairs you will walk into the second living room with a fireplace and a full bathroom, as well as a bidet!

Also, a third source of heat, with central heat and air conditioning, this home is perfect for any season. There is extra parking, and a perfect spot for your RV. Behind the completely fenced in backyard, there is a large deck with a lawn, and seamless rain gutters. Home is located at the end of the cul-de-sac; you won’t want to miss out!