A solar eclipse is a natural phenomenon that occurs among the celestial bodies - Sun, Moon and Earth. The solar eclipse occurs when the Moon comes between the Sun and the Earth and blocks the light coming from it and thereby creating a shadow on the Earth. Scientists around the globe keep waiting for this to happen for study purposes.There are many misconceptions regarding solar eclipses. Some people consider it unholy and take bath in rivers after its completion but many consider it an awe-inspiring natural phenomenon.Mainly, solar eclipses are of three types - total, partial, and annular. The total solar eclipse happens only when the Moon covers the Sun completely and the earth fills up with darkness. As it is a solar eclipse therefore this happens during the day, not at night. A partial solar eclipse takes place when the Moon covers the Sun partially and creates the crescent shape of light whereas the annular solar eclipse occurs when the Moon directly comes in front of the Sun but could not cover it completely thus creating a ring of light around the edge.Where the Moon's shadow completely covers the Sun that path of the solar eclipse is known as the path of totality. The path of totality is usually narrow and moves across the Earth's surface as the Moon and Earth rotate.

What happened during the solar eclipse

During annular or especially the total eclipse there is full darkness on the earth as it happens on the new moon (Amavasya). The sky darkens and the stars start showing up during the day and the temperature starts dropping. During the total solar eclipse animals and birds behave strangely as they could not understand this sudden change. Watching a solar eclipse can be a weird and unusual experience that some people feel changes them a lot.

Precautions to be taken

Though it is a very fascinating event and watching it happens can add charm to it. However, you should note that viewing a solar eclipse with the naked eye can be dangerous as it may cause permanent damage to your eyes. While watching the solar eclipse annular or partial you must take precautions. Never watch the sun directly with the naked eye use glasses or filters to protect the eyes, or indirect methods such as pinhole cameras or images in a water body.During ancient civilizations it was believed that solar eclipses were a sign of the gods' anger or a warning of disasters however today it is a subject of scientific study and observation, that provides insights into the Sun's structure and behaviour.