The overall process to build an engine isn't rocket science—or is it? You see, the 10,000-foot view of putting together an engine seems pretty straightforward, but when you do a low-level fly-by you see that building an engine right is all about the details. It's an exercise where being off a thousandth of an inch can lead to a catastrophic failure. This attention to detail is what separates engine assemblers from engine builders. Chevrolet Performance's new tall-deck ZZ632 big-block (PN 19432060) is its biggest ever—and at 1,004 horsepower, its most powerful as well. It's a pump-gas-fed race engine for the street, and to make it bulletproof it's built at GM's Performance and Racing Center in Pontiac Michigan. We've already taken a deep dive into the RSX heads that make this 632 behemoth possible, so now let's take a walk on the wild side and build a whole engine. Oh, and there's a ton of build shots in the gallery; look close, and you might see something you shouldn't.

The Performance and Racing Center isn't a place that's easy to get into. Why? Well, because this is where GM builds many of its all-out race engines like this LT6. R for the Corvette C8.R race cars. They also build specialty engines for the Cadillac program and some pretty big racing names in everything from Pro Mod to Trophy Trucks. These are the best racing engineers and builders at GM, and in addition to the things we're not allowed to show you, they also meticulously create the ZZ632 for both the crate version and the 50 Camaros in the COPO program.

At this point in the process, the block is assigned a serial number and handed off to a builder who will handle every aspect of the ZZ632 until it's ready to be hot tested. By having just one person work with the engine, there's no "I thought he did it!" moment and overall build quality is ensured. Our engine (serial number 050) was assigned to Bob Gyorke. Gyorke has been at GM for 30 years in various functions from automatic transmissions to cylinder pressure data for the Advanced Engine Group. And as is typical of those who work here, he's a real-deal gearhead who runs his 1969 Camaro, which he's had for 20 years now, in NHRA Stock Eliminator A/SA and B/SA classes. First up on his long list of things to do was hand deburring the block.

The first parts to go into the block are the cam bearings along with all the various threaded plugs. Fun fact: When Chevrolet decided to build the ZZ632, it expected to make around 50 of them. Well, demand for the engine was a bit more than expected and at the time of this story Chevy had orders for well over 300 of them, including the 50 engines for the sold-out COPO Camaro program.

We would like to introduce you to the shortest big-block Chevy pistons we've ever seen. These fully coated forged-aluminum 2618 alloy Mahle slugs, when combined with the RSX heads' 70cc chambers, yields a premium pump-gas-friendly compression ratio of 12.0:1. Now, when we say premium we're not talking about the 91-octane swill that some places pass off as premium, we're talking real-deal 93-octane pump gas. Piston-to-wall clearance is set to between 0.0050  and 0.0055 -inch. The piston, at top dead center, is 0.005 to 0.006 inch below deck.

After installing the O-rings on the head's four water ports, we could then set the valley cover in place. By going this route, the intake manifold is dry, and since it also uses O-rings to seal, it's quick and easy to remove it if you need to service the coil packs or wires. The front and rear of the valley get a generous bead of RTV, just like any other big-block build.

On episode 24 of Engine Masters, the team explores one of the most-asked tech questions: What budget bolt-ons can be used on a stock small-block Chevy 5.7 to get more horsepower? Watch as David Freiburger, Steve Dulcich, and Steve Brule take the cheapest Chevy 350 crate engine you can buy and make mods that gain nearly 130 horsepower! It's a dyno-proven, easy-to-install power combo that will give you the best bang for your buck. Sign up for a free trial to MotorTrend+ today and start watching every episode of Engine Masters, plus much more!