Brie Larson stunned in a royal blue dress at the Breakthrough Prize Ceremony recently.

She may play a Captain for Marvel, but Brie Larson looked like a queen in the royal blue dress she wore to the Breakthrough Prize Ceremony. The 33-year-old actress posted a couple of pics on Instagram of herself wearing a Jason Wu Collection draped ruched midi-dress, and the results are stunning! The dark blue number accentuates Larson’s long slender neck and her athletic figure perfectly.

Brie Larson attended the event Saturday alongside fellow superheroes Robert Downey Jr. and Gal Gadot, as well as non-cape-wearing celebrities like John Legend. The Breakthrough Prize Ceremony honors “scientists changing the world” and awards them cash prizes for their important work. This year was the first time since the Ceremony’s inception nine years ago that it’s taken place in Hollywood, hence the sizable number of movie stars in attendance.

The Ceremony is known as “the Oscars of Science” and was founded by Sergey Brin, Priscilla Chan, Julia Milner, Yuri Milner, Anne Wojcicki, and Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg. The event took place on the open-air roof of the Academy Museum of Motion Pictures and was hosted by infamous late-night host James Corden.

Scientists Drew Weissman and Katalin Kariko, whose work was essential in developing the COVID vaccine, were among those celebrated by Brie Larson and her fellow thespians Saturday. All in all, a total of $15.75 million was given out to Breakthrough Prize honorees from various science fields.

When Brie Larson isn’t busy attending charity events (and being an object of desire for men and women everywhere), she’s hard at work making movie magic. IMDb shows the actress has no less than four upcoming projects in various states of completion.

Larson will join the Fast and the Furious “family” for the upcoming Fast X next month. The actress plays a character named Tess in what’s being billed as the final installment in the long-running franchise. Brie Larson joins Jason Mamoa as one of the few new cast members to make an appearance in the tenth Fast movie alongside an army of returning characters.

Meanwhile, Brie retuns to the MCU in November as the star of The Marvels, the follow-up to 2019’s Captain Marvel. The sequel will see Captain Marvel team up with fellow supes Monica Rambeau and teen brawler Kamala Khan, AKA Ms. Marvel. The film is rumored to have had some backstage drama between Brie Larson and her co-stars Iman Vellani and Teyonah Parris, but so far, the rumors are just that, rumors.

In addition to the high-profile film projects Brie Larson is involved with, the actress also dabbles in television. Larson directed an episode of the Disney+ series Growing Up in 2022 and is currently working on the Scott Pilgrim anime. Brie also has an untitled CIA project in pre-production that she is both producing and starring in.

Luckily for any Brie Larson fans who can’t wait for the above projects to get their Brie fix, the actress regularly posts stunning pictures like the ones above to her Instagram. Larson’s mixture of beauty and talent makes for a killer combo that no fan can resist.