Transcripts are auto-generated and thus will be be inaccurate and at times crude. We are considering building a system to allow volunteers to edit transcripts in a controlled system. No part of this transcript may be copied or referenced or transmitted in any way whatsoever.

Transcripts are auto-generated and thus will be be inaccurate and at times crude. We are considering building a system to allow volunteers to edit transcripts in a controlled system. No part of this transcript may be copied or referenced or transmitted in any way whatsoever.

Welcome to our nightly dua for the 27th night of Ramadan.

We ask Allah subhanaw taala to accept from us to forgive us for shortcomings and increases in goodness Allama mean

Charlo Tada will give about 30 seconds for people to be able to see the live stream notification and then we will start inshallah Tada

Of course, everyone is I'm sure busy with their own acts of worship with their own do Hamlet loudly on charity, their own poor and their own prayers. So we'll keep it brief inshallah Tada 10 minutes max dry in Arabic and then you are an English inshallah to Allah for the purpose of education and to motivate inshallah Tada those who are learning to make dua and those who would like to see how do eyes made and to benefit from one another's gatherings inshallah welcome welcome from all around the world.

Welcome especially to the Eastern Time Zone seems like a lot of people in the same time zone hamdulillah

as well as central and others Bismillah

will get started in sha Allah Tada with the DUA in Arabic medical Chico. Welcome, welcome. Mashallah, France, and all across Europe? May Allah Subhana Allah bless you all and except for you.

hamdulillah Hamed and Kathy don't play even mobile often fee your umbilical hamdu tema Yun belly you generally what do you call the missile plank Allahumma salli wa sallim wa barik ala Nabina Muhammad in Fil A one in Warfield feeding in Warfield manner in either Yomi de Allahu Allahumma Nina Freeman her date wife enough human our fate what's our Luna fee mentor late alberic Luna female our point what Lena Shalom alkaloid in Naka toppled de wanna yup la Alec in the hula Illuma world eight What are your zoom? And are they Tibet? Dr. Obinna Ouattara ate a llama in a car for 123451 Allah in Nikka are 412 a timber laugh waffle on Allah in a car for winter? Hibbeler 451 A llama in nearness

El Camino and Heidi quality here, Judy he were urging Marlene I mean who I'm not I'm not when are we coming to shove equally? Judy Malema I mean who am I I'm not him.

Allow me notice I look if you identify you're onto a token will come out or have been Misaki a lot of money. No, no, they'll be coming out Himalayan salt on the column in a shot. I mean, I didn't take them out when Neff sila Teshuvah. It's only open law one less no Allahumma Hyndman nerf er wappen been Hoshyar when he served under keadaan check you know where I'm at on slightly Homewood up on Bella? Allah him up on his arm Elena Amina the one Sina tena United Cody. What are you gonna be noticed Rihanna or Palutena Mina Shirky, I mean only fap Allah who may Allah even call Obi Wan Upsource a bit Kulu Granada Denecke a lot of models up now. bubblin mo Titova Wangan multi shahada,

WOBEGON multigene nuttin one Arima, a lot of models O'Connor horsnell, Hatim our John Hydra Yamuna, Yeoman and park a llama Jiang Clara Yamuna Yamuna Park. A lot of my letter Dona Ana FEMA Kamina her them been in la foto what a hum and Illa for lunch to one a day in and in LA for loita One a ball La Ilaha data one m of lumen e learner Salter whatever Marineland inertia feta

when our party been in an adjuster What are Musa if you don't in Solomon, here auditor Bureau from Attica oximeter wash me a lot of Medallia Quran and all the email will be awkward. It will be not one no Rasul Adina what Jana? Huzzah Nina what the herb Momina home Wamena Allah Medicube Noemi humanos Sina Lim naming her Maria Hoonah what was up 90 day water earner and Lady water often the heart I didn't want you to let your leak on Bureau hermetic hammer mean

along on Southern Islam rise and Muslimeen Allah Montessori Muslim Ilan was told off enough equally makan Allahumma Federici caliber anti Muslim enough equally mckern frequently mica and equally mica and yeah they'll generally what the Quran, Allah of my nan salva Amin hum ger on full time home or watch on Fox or mother Omona on Salam, Juna la que up are we you Yahtzee is a llama I domesticated offsider you have been mostly mean Allah Maha Hibino There must've been I mean at the body alarm it must be the ox I mean alien body mean a lot more discipline I think it's hard to be dramatic out from a lot I mean

a lot more fit and in what meaning when want me not when mostly Amina when Muslim out and a fairly minimal amount. A lot more fiddly molten mostly Minakami Alladhina Shahidullah COVID What do you know via COVID riesa WOMMA to another llamo funeral home what hum home wire for him wife one

more equity in Nigeria What was your mood column while still from when you were 30 Well borrowed went up to him you know do not be one portfolio camera unit but so will appeal to a minute does a lot more Hamner either Asuna either Mr. Sato et Allah MOBA little no need to have more mobility of Malaysia to audit Allah whomever little no leader to the point, which I know if he hurt me number 14 Allahumma Jana fie having a morning alarm a kind of turn to you, Dana to fumble. Minaj may for to fumble. Minaj mine was futile. Nanaia Rahmani r Rahim. Llama until Lonnie you want to handle for follow up? We're interloper we you want to know more off up? Nadeau? Ruka dua El Moussa Jean.

Whenever Julio colada and ha bien la monitor I'm gonna call it we want our midwife moto Moto G yeah, how you yeah for you? Yeah, sure. You have for you. Yeah. How you yeah for you and Raj Matic and esta Leith OS left Nana shenana Cola. What are Tokina? Elan fusina call for time? Alarm affinity YT Dina or why did you want Idina Allahumma field and Anna? Aquila, de quoi je la kabhi Raha wa salim Raha Marlena minha limonada

Robin alumna and fusina what you know, I'm telling you to run out of Hamner Dona Coonan I mean Aloha city Robina Hublin I mean as wodgina Whether the Chino Potawatomi which I'm not even talking you know, Iman, Robin Allah to zip kuruva Nevada in her Daytona will have Blenheim Elysium Kurama in a cantilever herb, llama stimulant Ramadan a bit of Wanek when a janitor when they come in neutronic Allah mocked him Lana Ramadan a Betta Dhwani when Naja toilets come in neurotic loving and Ahsoka Mooji about your automatic was enough erotic was muttering police. What are NEMA time equilibria? Well fossa be Jen Jannetty one Naja Tomino no law has given me a lot of my article Fabiana What do

you follow the about you know what my hurting I mean I'm not

alone my cleaning agenda Tamala Braun yeah I was easily over felt a little confused Those are their billing at face up Barnaby you know also daily you know, shahada it will solve your thing or husband or eco vehicle ultimately known as it will be Heidi Masada can be armed to Kona vehicle Mohamed Salah long audience and when are we gonna be coming shut him out let me I'm just gonna be with them from what's on the law hottie he was

a llama IDI Lina Ramadan. acini Nadia was Amina to Medina. We're not an alum of iman on uploading law metalphoto Salah tena, mostly Yamuna. What Liam Anna What do Nikka into some Yachty what to vida, you know, in Naka into to Weber washing, robbing Earth enough in dunya, Hassan of food, your husband walking up and down 100 You got him on beyond I mean, also lead him on and I've been on Muhammad and Radha Ernie he was Sufi he was

let's move on to the English dua inshallah Donna again for the purpose of education

do you can make in any language you're able to express. And so if you're not able to do on Arabic, and you're struggling, therefore to connect to Allah subhanaw taala. Your dua does not have to be in Arabic, the loss of heart understands all languages. The most important thing is that you are making dua that it is from the bottom of your heart that you are sincere that you're humble, that you recognize who you're calling upon, that you recognize that your DUA is accepted in many different forms. So do not waste the act of worship known as dua. It is the essence of worship and it is a weapon for the believer it is salvation and success. It is a light and a lifestyle. It is a

relationship between the master and the servant, the creator and the creation. So stay connected to your DUA stay connected to her throughout throughout the year throughout every act of worship. May Allah subhanaw taala keep us consistent along with me. If you do not know Arabic and you want to make dua, even in prayer in sujood, specifically in the prostration in prayer you are allowed to make dua in other languages as well and this is the scholarly opinion that is taught by many scholars and this is the opinion that I follow and teach. Let's make your own English inshallah Tada for about seven to nine minutes Inshallah, sunnah.

Allah, we praise You. We praise you our law for the blessing of life. We praise you your Alana, we thank you for guidance to the truth to Islam. We praise you Allah for allowing us to live to another Ramadan, we praise you Allah for allowing us to make it to the last 10 nights of Ramadan. We praise you Allah you are the light and the Lord and the maintainer of the heavens and the earth and all that is in between. So to us thanks and praise. Oh Allah, we submit to you. We believe in you, we depend on you, we repent to you, or Allah we refer back to you we seek judgment from you. So grant us forgiveness from you for our past sins and the new, those hidden and those evident from all of

them we repent and from the sins that we forgotten while you knew Oh,

We ask You for Paradise, the highest levels of Paradise, and everything that will bring us closer to it have actions and speech and environments and friends. And we seek refuge in You from the fire, and anything that will bring us closer to of actions and speech and environments and friends. Oh Lord, guide us amongst those who have guided grant us health amongst those who have granted health to protect us amongst those who have protected and bless us in what has been given to us by you. Protect us from any evil that is decreed for you decree in truth and none can decree over you. None can disgrace whom you support, and on can honor whom you oppose you are the blessed and exalted, Oh

Allah, you are the Most Merciful of those who showed mercy. The Most Merciful of those asked, the most generous of those who give the sustainer of everything and you alone ever live. You Who here's what we do not hear you who sees what we do not see you who changes the universe by simply saying couldn't be. We don't have the ability to praise you you are as you praise yourself. We thank you Allah for our faith, our families, our health and our wealth. We declare you to be our Lord with no deities other than you, You created us. We are your slaves, we fulfill our pledge to you. We seek refuge in You from the sins that we commit. Your blessings cannot be counted Your favors, we all

admit. We confess our sins here on law and we ask for your forgiveness for non forgive sins except for you. Oh Allah, you informed us that you are a lawful you are forgiving, you love to forgive. So forgive us, O Allah, you're forgiving. You love to forgive so forgive us, O Allah, you are forgiving. You love to forgive so forgive us. We beg you along this blessed month, these Blissett nights and this blessing our We beg you your Allah with your names and your attributes to forgive us for all of our sins. We repent to Allah from all of our sins, the sins that are minor and the sins that are major, the sins of the past, present and future the sins that are public, the sins that are

private, the sins we remember and the sins that we forgot. We beg you Allah to grant us forgiveness to erase our sins, and to grant us consistency and steadfastness and strength. As we return back to your Allah. Allah We seek refuge in You from a heart that is not humbled. An eye that does not tear, knowledge that doesn't benefit us and a prayer not lifted near all our make us and our loved ones people of the Quran Oh Allah, we've neglected the Quran, despite knowing it is the source of guidance, the source of lights the Source of Healing the source of success and salvation. Forgive us yet Allah for neglecting relationships with the Quran throughout the year. Forgive us your Allah. We

beg you Allah to make us and our loved ones people have the Quran, companions of the Quran, who truly live upon it, recite it, reflect on it, refer back to it, memorize it, internalize it, implement it and teach it. Oh Allah make the Quran, the spring of our hearts, the light of our chests, the remover of our sadness, the repeller of our stress. Teach us what we don't know of it, remind us what we've forgotten, and grant us the ability to recite throughout the day and night. Oh Allah, we asked you to guide us and our loved ones and to make us a source of guidance for others. Although we asked you to guide us in our families, our parents, our spouses, our children, our

relatives, or neighbors or roommates or companions, our friends, Oh Allah, guide for us, our youth, bring them to the truth and protect them from influences that would cause them to be misled. Forgive our parents and grandparents and have mercy and are dead, removed from us the overpowering of people the overburdening of debt. And oh Allah grant us success in every facet of success and remove our stress and marry our bachelors and bachelorettes. Oh Allah, we ask you to help repair the marriages of our brothers and sisters in every line and place and to guide every husband and every wife to fulfill the rights of those with them to fulfill the rights of those closest to them and to guide

them to tough core to God consciousness and good character in all situations. In all scenarios. Yeah, Allah we asked you for your protection within families and external to families from any kind of harm. Yet Allah grant Muslim students the ability to excel and to be role models to others in Dean and dunya, and doubts and desires repel all our free our prisoners and bring them back to their family safe and secure and be with them yet Allah heal our sick from all ailments you alone are the one to cure all we seek Your protection for being tested. And we asked you Allah, to run justice and peace to our brothers and sisters, in every land and every place in which your name is mentioned. Oh

Allah. There are many Muslims in many places who are being oppressed who are being punished for worshipping you. They are being oppressed to Allah and it is as though they have no state to support them and no OMA behind them and no land to accept them and no one to carry them. It is them and you yet Allah you are their supporter their hope. all avenues are shut for them except your door that never closes. So be their greatest support and greatest ally and guide us to be a source of justice for others. Oh Allah utilize

To us, for peace and for justice for other people in the world. Oh Allah utilize us for the betterment of the world, and for light in the world and for optimism in the world and for peace in the world. Oh Allah have mercy on our friends and our brothers and sisters and everyone who requested our prayers, and removed from our hearts, any kind of grudges, any kind of envy any kind of jealousy, any negative assumptions of our brothers and sisters purify our hearts Yet Allah and yeah, ALLAH forgive all of their sins and correct all of their affairs. He Allah you have allowed us to experience the month of Ramadan. You've blessed us to make it to this month, so we beg you Allah

to make us amongst those who are forgiven. Oh Allah, allow us to leave this month with a clean slate. You know, Allah with all of our sins and all of our faults and all of our guilt and all of our shame and all of our shortcomings. There's nothing that gives us the ability to ask you for forgiveness except what you've taught us of your mercy. You are the one who said lots of not only Rahmatullah do not lose hope in the Mercy of Allah. So Allah, we are calling upon you because we do not lose hope in your mercy. We beg you Allah to have mercy on us and forgive us and guide us and make us a source of guidance for others. Oh Allah make us of the people of paradise and protect us

from the fire. Protect us, our families and our Ummah from all evil and heal the hearts of the believing people. Oh Allah, if this is Laila to college, they make us amongst the accepted and all that if it's on another night that has not yet arrived make us amongst those who are accepted and grant us consistency throughout the year. Oh Allah protect us from worshiping you only during Ramadan, and grant us the strength and the wisdom to worship you throughout the year for You are the Lord of all months. You are the Lord of time. Oh Allah rentas consistency after Ramadan and surround us with people and friends and environments and thoughts that will help us to get closer to you. Oh

Allah, we ask You for happiness and healing, optimism and hope, resilience through our grief and losses. And Allah have mercy on those who have passed away from our loved ones, or law. We asked you to bless us in our mental and physical health and to make us a source of healing for others. And we asked you Allah to grant us many more years to experience many more Ramadan's and to grant us the wisdom and strength to take advantage of every opportunity you've given us. All make us amongst them grateful, oh Allah keep us amongst the grateful all our keep us amongst the grateful make us a people of gratitude. Yeah, Allah, that people have contentment with all that we have. Oh Allah,

guide our Islamic centers and our institutions and our governments and our politicians and our leaders and our scholars and our activists, and our students of knowledge and our volunteers and our staff members all around the world guide us to Allah, in our institutions, to be people of sincerity to be people of success and to be upon the truth. And yet Allah if we have heard if we have fallen short, then forgive us guide us make us receptive to feedback and advice kind gentle, wise prophetic advice from one another. Make us a source of nausea for one another in the best character in the best manner possible. And make us a people of wisdom Yola and unite between our hearts Oh Allah,

protect us from any kind of division. Protect us to Allah from losing our unity protect us yet Allah from any kind of superiority complex from any kind of pride or arrogance in went in the times we correct one another and advise one another and protect us here among guide us and keep us united upon that which is pleasing to you. Yeah, Allah, we beg you to accept Oh Allah accept all accept, for there's no one who accepts these prayers except for you. Our final supplication is that all praise is due to Allah, Lord of the Worlds Oh Allah send your peace and your blessings upon your messenger Muhammad, and those who follow Him until the end of times along my mean along with me.

Does that lead on to our brothers and our sisters? May Allah subhanaw taala reward you for tuning in every night. And of course it is the 27th nights where I am where we are in the eastern time zone here in the US. I ask Allah subhanaw taala to accept from all of you, Joseph McKinnon for tuning in for these dua for making dua for your comments, your kind words Hamdulillah we missed the different cities that we prayed in as well and as of Messina to the people of Memphis. Mashallah, as you know, and motive Institute has been going for 20 years. And Chef Muhammad machete farmer law the founder passed away but he was with us last year and make dua for him and for his family as well. But he

didn't leave behind something that fizzled out, but rather, it's only increased in its impact. It's continued to grow because of you and because of many other students of Hamlet with the will and mercy of Allah subhanaw taala. And as we continue to grow of Hamdulillah we started with 35 students 20 years ago, and now over 215,000 Students hamdullah growing staff and researchers and students of knowledge and volunteers all around the world. Priceless in their impact. In sha Allah Tala, you will continue to see a number of projects and courses and classes for different age groups tailored to different needs of different community members. Many mothers who are at home cannot attend

classes many people pursuing their degrees bachelor's and Associates many people joining us for our Tobia program the newest programs, we have many people going for the first time along with blessing voyage or to Bosnia or to Turkey or other places. And so we ask you inshallah Tada on this blessed night.

during these last two nights to support another live Institute, to support another live Institute as much as you can make a loss of pounds and accept from all of you, as you know, the sort of bar, not every sort of not every charity is the same. Because when you look at the continuous charity, when your soul leaves your body, you know that some good deeds will continue after you've died. And that's a blessing. If you invested in something that continued when you left this world, then you were blessed by Allah subhanaw taala, to take action while you were alive. And that includes righteous children, that includes continuous charity, and that includes beneficial knowledge. And

the most amazing thing is what all three of these things mentioned in the Hadith, you can find through your impact through your donation at a military institute, may Allah subhana accept from all of you. So support as much as you can $100 $500 $1,000 We're almost at our goal in sha Allah to Allah, that objective, the vision is to go from 215,000 students to 1 million and to continue to focus on the highest standard of quality. That's something you know another will always do in short, long time. Furthermore, one of the signs that an institute an organization is, is one of the best investments with your soda is that you see the staff members themselves, people who work for these

Institute's donating, they're giving those that they're giving, they're sort of other and sometimes in large numbers, we don't want to expose anyone's private deeds with a lot of people who support their own institutions because they see the good that comes from it. They know this is worth getting my salah to I know the impact behind the scenes, and hamdulillah for the last few years working with a motive Institute very closely and with all the amazing staff and with the amazing volunteers and the different members of whom that we've seen only hired only son, there's a cultural center behind the scenes. So if you want your sofa to go for and you want it to impact a lot of different things

long after you leave this world that support another institute inshallah Tada, you can go to another web.org/donate And I asked a lot to accept from all of you to reward you and to make this one of the heaviest deeds that you find in your record on the Day of Judgment will continue to give you programs like this inshallah Tada continue to support this great Institute for it as your institute it is the community as it belongs to the ummah. So take advantage and join us in sha Allah Tada for the next 20 years. May Allah accept from all of you may Allah reward you you're all doing a remarkable job with your participation with your attendance and different programs with your DUA as

well and your kind words your feedback your support. So I ask Allah subhanaw taala to accept from all of you Joseph Murphy and once again for tuning in and please do support another live especially during these nights, especially during these Blizzard days. Take advantage and Charlotta that a coffee come we'll see you tomorrow night's for another live night later on, or Salaam Alaikum Warahmatullahi Wabarakatuh