This week the Premier League Darts roadshow pays a visit to the lowlands, with the Rotterdam Ahoy hosting the Night Twelve action. Last week we witnessed another vintage night of darts from Gerwyn Price, which saw him win his fourth night of the season. Can the Iceman make it five wins this week? Let’s take a look with our darts betting picks.

* Night Twelve of the 2023 Darts Premier League comes from the Rotterdam Ahoy, in Rotterdam, Netherlands

* The actions takes place on Thursday, April 20th, with the opening match starting at 2 pm ET

* Gerwyn Price defeated Chris Dobey (6-2), Michael van Gerwen (6-5), and Michael Smith (6-3) to win Night Eleven last week in Brighton

* This was Price’s fourth night win of the season, and it saw him close the gap on MVG at the top of the points table to just 2

Here's how the Cazoo Premier League table is shaping up with five league nights left to play.

Gerwyn Price closes to gap to Michael van Gerwen at the top, while Michael Smith moves up to third.#PLDarts pic.twitter.com/xuqtaaAQBW

It’s fair to say that Gerwyn Price is the in-form player in world darts at the moment, he has been for about the past six to eight weeks. At times the Iceman is just playing darts on a different level. In his 6-2 win over Chris Dobey in last week’s Premier League, Price averaged a sensational 115.97. Then in his 6-5 semi-final win over Michael van Gerwen, he averaged 108.08.

Admittedly, his level did drop in the final against Michael Smith. But when the match was in the balance early on, Price went through the gears to eventually pull away from the World Champion and take the final 6-3.

Elsewhere, and Peter Wright’s renaissance continued. Snakebite had a dart to beat Smith in his semi-final, and on reflection he will wonder how he managed to lose to the current World No.1. But despite losing 6-5 to Smith, it could be argued that Peter Wright was the better player. We think it’s now fair to say that Snakebite is somewhere near back to his best.

He may not have won a night since Night Six, but Michael van Gerwen did have a match dart to defeat Gerwyn Price in Brighton. MVG also averaged 104.71 in the defeat to Price, and he also averaged 104.11 in his quarter-final win over Dimitri Van den Bergh. So, it’s fair to say that van Gerwen’s form isn’t too bad either.

As for Nathan Aspinall and Jonny Clayton, they both went out at the quarter-final stage last week. Aspinall lost 6-5 to Peter Wright. While Jonny Clayton (the winner of the two previous nights) went down 6-4 to Michael Smith in their quarter-final.

Chris Dobey and Jonny Clayton have the misfortune to be on the same side of the draw as Gerwyn Price and Michael Smith this week. Price and Smith do play each other in their quarter-final though. So one of Dobey or Clayton will get a crack at either the world’s most in-form player, or world number one, in the semi-final.

On the other side of the draw is Peter Wright and Michael van Gerwen. Both these two will meet in the semi-final if they can defeat Dimitri Van den Bergh and Nathan Aspinall, respectively.

All this means that Michael van Gerwen is the favorite to win Night Twelve with the best darts betting sites. MVG was +225 to win the night last week, but is just +185 to win this Thursday. This can only be down to the fact that Gerwyn Price and Michael Smith both find themselves on the other side of the draw.

Gerwyn Price is second in the betting at +250, with Michael Smith next at +450. Then comes recent back-to-back winner Jonny Clayton at +1000, with Peter Wright following the Welshman at a large looking +1100.

Full Night Twelve betting can be found below on our darts odds table. These odds are taken from the best online sportsbooks. All of these top rated sportsbooks have their own mobile apps, which you can find out more about on our best sports betting apps page.

Last week we went a bit adventurous with our pick to win the night, and although the odds on this week’s sports betting pick are similar to last week’s pick, there is more Premier League Darts’ form behind our Rotterdam winner selection.

The pick of Nathan Aspinall last week was based on his showing in the previous Sunday’s European Tour event, where Aspinall got to the final. This week, we’re not going near the European Tour for form, and instead we’re looking at Peter Wright’s recent Premier League form.

On Night Ten, Wright made it to the final, and only lost on the last leg to Jonny Clayton. Then on Night Eleven, Snakebite was within one dart of making the final. In the last two weeks his form has picked up considerably, and therefore we are making Peter Wright our pick to win Premier League Darts Night Twelve.

For our second pick, we also like the look of a bet on the highest check-out to be over 148.5 at -120. There are some pretty good in form players in the Premier League at the moment. And as Michael Smith showed last week with his 160 finish, even when a player isn’t at his best, these guys all have the ability to do something pretty special.