If you’re a fan of festive decorations, you might remember COACH’s Holiday Bespoke Bus that roamed across Peninsular Malaysia, or their iconic Winter Wonderland featuring beautiful alpacas and reindeer. This Ramadan, COACH is back with more festive setups that will blow you away!

To usher in the festive spirit, COACH has transformed Pavilion Kuala Lumpur’s fountain area into a beautiful façade with a local touch. The decorations feature Ramadan symbols integrated with COACH logos, combining local traditions with COACH’s unique American heritage and design.

Available until 25th April ONLY, the jaw-dropping #CoachRamadan setup is a must-see! Be sure to check off this to-do list while you’re at it:

1. Take IG-worthy festive photos at the façade

Upon reaching the façade, you will be greeted by a larger-than-life Rexy and its family, encircled by gorgeous Ramadan lights. This upholds the heartwarming festive spirit that brings families and friends together!

The fountain is also surrounded by lanterns, stars, and crescent moons painted in a purple-orange gradient to symbolise the central values of Ramadan—wisdom, dignity, remembrance, and joy! Be it close-ups or full-body shoots, the decorations will make the perfect backdrop for your Ramadan OOTDs.

Absolutely gorgeous, isn’t it? Wait ‘til you see them light up at night! That’s right, these beautiful installations will come to life every evening, making the festive season even more magical!

Worried about dark and grainy nighttime photos? These gorgeous setups will give you just enough ambient lighting for any photoshoot. Position yourself near those glowing installations and pose away—you’ll never take a single bad picture!

These photos definitely don’t do justice to the beauty of the installations. Trust us, they look way more mesmerising when you see them in person!

What is Ramadan without heartfelt greetings and thoughtful wishes? To spread love and joy, COACH has prepared a magical digital platform that allows you to customise your special Star and send the warmest greetings to your loved ones!

It’s never too late to show your friends and family some love! Here’s how you can do so:

Scan the QR code at COACH’s façade or visit their

Design your unique Star, write down your wishes and click “Next”.

Share your Star with anyone via Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, or WhatsApp.

As simple as that, Rexy will send your sweet wishes to your loved ones in no time!

Can’t get enough of COACH’s façade and Ramadan decorations? Then you should definitely check out their in-store setup which is equally breathtaking! Expect glowing lanterns, stars, and moons in the twilight colour palette as you shop in any COACH store across the country.

Pssst… we heard that COACH stores in Suria KLCC, Pavillion Kuala Lumpur and The Gardens Mall have the most amazeballs setups! So make sure to drop by these stores for your Raya shopping okay?

Stylish handbags are indispensable accessories that complement and elevate our outfits. So while you’re admiring the in-store decorations, don’t forget to take a look at COACH’s latest collection!

The Tabby, Willow, Rogue Top Handle, and Charter Crossbody are just some of the stylish handbags that can match ANY Raya outfit.  These bold and unique handbags serve as a gentle reminder for fellow fashionistas to be confident and to express themselves unapologetically this festive season!

Gorgeous handbags aside, we have more good news for shoppers! You will be given complimentary green packets for any purchase made in COACH retail stores or via their e-store.

Do note that if you’re shopping at Genting Premium Outlet, Johor Premium Outlet, Penang Design Village Mall, or Mitsui Outlet Park, a minimum spend of RM1,500 is required to redeem the exclusive green packets.

Now that you know what fun lies within COACH’s festive celebration, what are you waiting for? Visit the beautiful façade at Pavillion Kuala Lumpur with your family and friends! Act fast tho, as the gorgeous #CoachRamadan decorations are available until 25th April ONLY!

For more information regarding COACH’s Ramadan celebration, visit their official website. Don’t forget to follow COACH on: