CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA: Former Cincinnati Bengals defensive end Chris Smith has tragically died at the age of 31. The Salisbury native, who spent eight seasons in the NFL, reportedly died just hours after playing for the Seattle Sea Dragons in the XFL on Sunday, April 16. No cause of death has been announced yet.

Smith graduated from West Rowan High School in 2010 and was the team's standout defensive end. He assisted the West Rowan Falcons in winning the 2009 3A State Championship. After graduating from high school, he received a recruiting offer to play for the University of Arkansas. Smith was later picked by the Jacksonville Jaguars in the fifth round of the 2014 NFL Draft. He played in 19 games over the course of his three seasons with the Jaguars, recording 4.5 sacks, according to WCNC.

How did Stanley Wilson Jr die? Former NFL player who was arrested over burglary charges dies at 40

'Gone too soon': Fans mourn Jessie Lemonier as NFL star dies at 25 leaving behind pregnant partner

Smith undoubtedly had a decorated career as he played with big NFL teams including Cincinnati Bengals, Cleveland Browns, Carolina Panthers, Las Vegas Raiders, Baltimore Ravens, and Houston Texans, before dropping out of the league in 2021, Daily Mail reported. In an effort to make a comeback, he signed with Seattle in the XFL in March and played five times for the squad before his tragic death. According to his Instagram account, he was also the co-owner of the Charlotte, North Carolina restaurant Cloud Southend and an ambassador for the Nova Men clothing line.

In 2019, Smith suffered a major heartbreak when Petara Cordero, his girlfriend and the mother of one of his three children, was killed on a highway in Cleveland. The tragic incident happened after Smith’s Lamborghini suffered a tire malfunction and hit the median. Cordero exited the car and was standing on the shoulder of the highway when she was struck down by a woman driving a Mazda. The 47-year-old woman later admitted to being intoxicated at the time of the accident. The 26-year-old Cordero had given birth to their first child a month before her death.

The tragic death of Smith has left the NFL world devastated. West Rowan High School's football account tweeted on Monday, April 17 to announce Smith's death, writing, "Rest in Peace to a West Rowan Legend! Chris was a better person than he was a player! The impact he had on those around him will be remembered forever!" Cleveland Browns tight end David Njoku also paid tribute to the star, saying, "Rest in paradise, Chris Smith. Hometown hero and a brother to everyone. Such a kind soul. This is Heartbreaking."

Smith’s death was later confirmed by the Salisbury Post, which described him as 'the ultimate give-back guy' who was a 'generous donor to local schools and projects'. Vic Tafur also remembered Smith and said, "‘Chris Smith only played eight games for the Raiders (2020) but made an impression. Great dude who overcome adversity and had a very positive spirit. He was 31. RIP."