When your business is solving problems, it’s necessary to find new ones – even if they aren’t  problems.

Else you might find yourself out of business.

You won’t find the above credo carved into the granite above the entrances to government regulatory temples such as the Environmental Protection Agency, but that there is truth in it is undeniable.

The EPA was  into existence – by executive order of Richard Milhous Nixon – in early 1970, a time when smoggy skies were indeed a problem. EPA’s brief – among others – was to clear them. When this was done – which was about 20 years later, so about 30 years ago from our current vantage point – EPA did not declare the problem solved. It the problem – a very clever way of finding a new one that wasn’t, really – but could be framed as one using etymological-psychological tactics worthy of the Great Master Edward Bernays himself.

Bernays’ genius was to deliberately use shifting and shifty definitions to manipulate thought and thereby, action. Propaganda, essentially. Bernays is credited with being one of the first to  – as the practitioners of the art themselves sometimes candidly put it.

EPA didn’t need to resort to such tactics at first as there really was a problem. Everyone could see – and smell – it. But can anyone see – or smell – the problem now? They can’t – because there isn’t.

Yet many people are certain there is an even more serious problem besetting us. Hasn’t the EPA said so?

Back in 1970, no one needed the EPA (or Nixon) to tell them there was an air-pollution problem. Today, the EPA insists there is a carbon dioxide problem with an urgency – a hysteria – that is inversely proportional to what we cannot see or smell or otherwise divine even exists. This isn’t surprising given the fact that carbon dioxide constitutes all of  percent of the air we breathe and the share of that our machines “emit” is literally a fraction of that fraction.

If the fact – just the 0.04 one – were generally known and understood, the “problem” of carbon dioxide “emissions” from our machines would shortly become a problem – for the EPA – in terms of losing its puissance as a justification for “electrification,” among other things.

Which brings up another problem – for “electrification.”

If the current hysteria-fomenting over the 0.04 percent of the earth’s atmosphere that is C02 being increased by 0.01 percent (or whatever the fraction of the fraction actually is) succeeds in forcing almost all of the machines off the road in favor of devices (i.e., battery-powered cars) then won’t that have  of these dread “emissions”?

And what then – for the EPA?

Well, it will be the same as it was about 30 years ago, when it was realized within the EPA that a new problem was needed as the old one had been solved. Part of the solution to that problem, so to speak, was to the problem – or rather, the terms used to describe it. “Pollution” and “emissions” were used to characterize carbon dioxide – that fearful 0.04 percent that many people believe is more in the neighborhood of four or even 40 percent, as the EPA wants them to believe.

Having succeeded to an alarming degree in getting many people to believe just that, EPA assured those people would not question the necessary solutions offered up by EPA, including the elimination (via regulation) of everything that isn’t “electrified.”

And not just cars.

What comes next is what will be interesting.

Unless EPA does what no government agency has ever done – by saying there’s nothing left for it to do – it will inevitably claim there is  for it to do. More than 16,000 paychecks and hundred of millions in are on the line, after all. It is why there is more to do. No matter how much has been done.

It’s what will be done that may finally teach the unteachable, if such a thing is possible.

“Electrification” – of everything – will be found to cause  and , too. What was innocuous will be redefined as offensive – and dangerous. Just as carbon dioxide once was – and now is.

One can already discern the beginning of the shift, as in the shifting of the verbiage used to describe EVs as  emissions-free rather than  emissions, as they had been described for almost the past 15 years, until just the past six months or so. It is no accidental/coincidental thing. Such things never are. The apparat picks and chooses the words it uses – and the definitions it uses (and changes) with calculated precision.

You have been told what’s next. All you need do is listen.

It is as predictable as Pravda during the latter Brezhnev years that the EPA will find problems in need of solutions being “emitted” from places other-than-tailpipes.

In other words, EVs – and “electrification” – will not solve the problem . . . of the EPA. And that will be our problem, again.

Because – to recall the words of the vicious Union cavalry commander in , doin’ right ain’t got no end.

If you like what you’ve found here please consider supporting EPautos.