SpaceX received a much-awaited green light from the Federal Aviation Administration on Friday for the launch of Starship, the largest and most powerful rocket to ever take off from Earth.

The approval, which SpaceX had been waiting to get for several years, means the company is set to launch the rocket as soon as Monday, Ars Technica reports(Opens in a new window). In its thumbs up, the FAA said: “After a comprehensive license evaluation process, the FAA determined SpaceX met all safety, environmental, policy, payload, airspace integration and financial responsibility requirements.” The license, the agency added, is valid for five years.

As Ars Technica notes, Space X is due to perform a final readiness review this weekend before confirming it will launch. In a tweet(Opens in a new window) last night, SpaceX said Starship is “fully stacked at Starbase” in Texas, which suggests the rocket is good to launch on Monday.

If all goes to plan, Starship will lift off from SpaceX’s launch site in Boca Chica on the Gulf of Mexico after  7 a.m. local time (12:00 UTC). Tuesday and Wednesday are also cited by Ars Technica as potential backup launch opportunities.

Owing to the SpaceX site's proximity to wetlands that are home to many shorebirds(Opens in a new window), the space company and Starship was subject to extensive environmental checks and regulations. In June, the FAA dished out 75 actions SpaceX was required to do to protect local wildlife in and around its Boca Chica site.

Starship is expected to ascend to an altitude of 235km (146 miles) and become “nearly orbital.” The whole launch, orbit, and re-entry into Earth will take 90 minutes. Its engines will shut down 9 minutes and 20 seconds into the flight and then it will coast for over an hour before splashing down about 224km (139 miles) north of the Hawaiian island of Oahu.

Get Our Best Stories!

Sign up for What's New Now to get our top stories delivered to your inbox every morning.

This newsletter may contain advertising, deals, or affiliate links. Subscribing to a newsletter indicates your consent to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe from the newsletters at any time.

Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox!

Sign up for other newsletters