. Discussion For your initial post to this forum, using the…

. Discussion For your initial post to this forum, using the…

Discussion For your initial post to this forum, using the guidelines listed below, select a qualitative research study from a North American Nursing journal and discuss_0N_Eof the guidelines below in regards to the study selected. Make sure to indicate the guideline selected. Original discussion posts should include at least one current (2017-2022) scholarly Nursing resource (from a NURSING journal) cited in APA format.

1. Did the report discuss efforts to enhance or evaluate the quality of the data and the overall inquiry? If so, was the description sufficiently detailed and clear? If not, was there other information that allowed you to draw inferences about the quality of the data, the analysis, and the interpretations? 2. Which specific techniques (if any) did the researcher use to enhance the trustworthiness and integrity of the inquiry? What quality-enhancement strategies were not used? Would additional strategies have strengthened your confidence in the study and its evidence? 3. Did the researcher adequately represent the multiple realities of those being studied? Do the findings seem authentic? 4. Given the efforts to enhance data quality, what can you conclude about the study’s validity/integrity/rigor/trustworthiness? 5. Did the report discuss any study limitations and their possible effects on the credibility of the results or on interpretations of the data? Were results interpreted in light of findings from other studies? 6. Did the researchers discuss the study’s implications for clinical practice or future research? Were the implications well-

Place an Order

We do custom work 100% original and plagiarism free .If you need help in any assignment just send us requirements with time limit ,we will quote a price and after your confirmation ,we start working on your assignment. An original work ready for submission provided to you

Name*

First

Last

Email*

Description**

Attachment

Drop files here or

EmailThis field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.

Δ