THIS CONTENT IS RESERVED FOR SUBSCRIBERS ONLY Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.  Unlimited online access to articles from across Canada with one account. Get exclusive access to the National Post ePaper, an electronic replica of the print edition that you can share, download and comment on. Enjoy insights and behind-the-scenes analysis from our award-winning journalists. Support local journalists and the next generation of journalists.      Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.  Unlimited online access to articles from across Canada with one account. Get exclusive access to the National Post ePaper, an electronic replica of the print edition that you can share, download and comment on. Enjoy insights and behind-the-scenes analysis from our award-winning journalists. Support local journalists and the next generation of journalists.      Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience.  Access articles from across Canada with one account. Share your thoughts and join the conversation in the comments.  Get email updates from your favourite authors.

CHESTERBROOK, Pa. — Boomi™, the intelligent connectivity and automation leader, today announced the appointment of Greg Wolfe as Chief Commercial Officer, Rahim Bhatia as Chief Strategy Officer, and Jessica Soisson as Chief Accounting Officer. Additionally, Dan McAllister joins the company as Senior Vice President of Global Alliances and Channels, and Troy Anderson joins as Global Commercial Market Vice President.    We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or

tap here to see other videos from our team.     Boomi Appoints New Additions to Leadership Team as It Continues Global Expansion

Sign up to receive the daily top stories from the Financial Post, a division of Postmedia Network Inc.         There was an error, please provide a valid email address.        By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails or any newsletter. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300    Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Financial Post Top Stories will soon be in your inbox.   We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again

Greg Wolfe, Chief Commercial Officer

As chief commercial officer at Boomi, Greg Wolfe will oversee the company’s global strategy, driving growth and exceptional customer experience across all business units and geographies. With over 35 years of experience in leading and operating a diverse set of companies and functions in the SaaS category, Greg is a seasoned executive with a proven track record of driving success, building high-performance teams, and maximizing stakeholder value. Prior to joining Boomi, he held C-level and executive roles at some of the world’s leading technology companies, including Adobe, SAP, Business Objects, Marketo, Crystal Decisions, and Xerox Corporation.    Rahim Bhatia, Chief Strategy Officer

Rahim Bhatia joins Boomi as chief strategy officer, where he will help further develop and execute on the company’s strategy for driving organizational growth and customer success. Rahim is a customer- and commercial-focused leader with more than 20 years’ experience delivering scalable customer and revenue growth for technology businesses at companies such as SAP, CA Technologies, and Axway.    Jessica Soisson, Chief Accounting Officer

A seasoned leader in compliance with regulatory and governance requirements across fast-paced, multinational organizations, Jessica Soisson has more than 25 years’ experience in diligence, acquisitions and divestitures, corporate restructuring initiatives, and business process re-engineering. As Chief Accounting Officer, she will be responsible for overseeing all accounting matters and functions for the Company, tax, treasury, and various other functions, such as order management and collections. Jessica was previously Chief Accounting Officer and SVP, Corporate Controller at Citrix Systems, and served in a managerial role at Arthur Andersen.    Dan McAllister, Senior Vice President of Global Alliances and Channels

Dan McAllister brings to Boomi more than 25 years of experience in global alliances and channel partnerships. Previously, he led global teams and achieved industry-leading growth at Salesforce, MuleSoft, Box, NetSuite, Crystal Decisions, and SAP. At Boomi, Dan will focus on further building the company’s extensive global partner ecosystem and developing win-win partner enablement programs.    Troy Anderson, Global Commercial Market Vice President

Troy Anderson most recently led Data Analytics Sales at Google Cloud for North America. Prior to its acquisition by Google, Troy led Worldwide Commercial Sales and Go To Market Strategy for Looker. For more than 20 years Troy has specialized in commercial sales leadership with an emphasis on team culture. Prior to Google, Troy held senior leadership roles at Qlik, SAP, Crystal Decisions, and Business Objects covering Global Sales, Business Development, and Operations. Under Troy’s leadership, his organizations were recognized as top employers in the region.

Will the massive PSAC strike stoke inflation? Maybe, but it's complicated                Bank of Canada 'may need to hike again': What the economists are saying about the latest inflation data                Rich GOP Donors Want a Trump Alternative. DeSantis Has Them Worried                Posthaste: Sales dwindle in luxury real estate market — but don't blame a lack of buyers                 Canadians are about to be hit by the full shock of rising interest rates