Woburn, MA - April 11, 2023 - iCorps Technologies, a leading provider of outsourced IT services across the country, announced that ® has honored iCorps Technologies on its 2023 Tech Elite 250 list.

This annual list features solution providers of all sizes across the U. S. and Canada that have differentiated themselves by achieving the highest level and largest breadth of certifications and specializations from key technology vendors in the infrastructure, cloud, and security spaces.

Businesses rely on solution providers to maintain the highest levels of technical prowess across critical products and services to help them meet today’s IT challenges and take advantage of the benefits of cutting-edge solutions. To meet these demands, solution providers such as strategic service providers, systems integrators, managed service providers, and value-added resellers strive to maintain high levels of training and certification from IT vendors and achieve the highest tiers within their partner programs.

As a Managed Services Provider, iCorps understands the importance of aligning technology with business goals. We provide comprehensive IT solutions that help our clients succeed in a competitive and dynamic market. iCorps’ team of technology experts has extensive experience and knowledge in various fields and industries, as well as compliance and cybersecurity. We are constantly updating our skills and certifications, such as those offered by Microsoft, Google, Amazon, and industry-recognized credentials, such as CISSP (Certified Information Systems Security Professional) and CIPP US/EU (Certified Information Privacy Professional). These partnerships allow iCorps to offer innovative and customized solutions that meet each client's needs and challenges. iCorps’ proactive and strategic approach to IT management ensures that our clients’ systems are secure, reliable, and efficient, enabling them to focus on their core business objectives.

"We are honored to be recognized on CRN's 2023 Tech Elite 250 List," said Michael Hadley, President & CEO of iCorps Technologies. "As a solutions provider, our clients trust our expertise on the latest technologies - a responsibility we take very seriously. We better position our clients for success through our partnerships and our fundamental pursuit of excellence."

“CRN’s Tech Elite 250 list features the leading solution providers in the IT channel with the most in-depth technical knowledge, expertise, and certifications for providing the highest level of service for their customers,” said Blaine Raddon, CEO of The Channel Company. “These solution providers have continued to extend their aptitudes and abilities across various technologies and IT practices, demonstrating their commitment and value to their customers.

Coverage of the Tech Elite 250 is featured in the April issue of CRN® Magazine and online at

Experience what it's like to have the peace of mind of knowing your specific business IT needs are backed by award-winning services and solutions. free consultation

About iCorps Technologies

iCorps Technologies is a leading IT consulting, Managed Services, and Cloud Computing Company. iCorps provides strategic leadership, innovative services, and superior IT solutions implemented by the best IT consultants nationwide. With more than two decades of experience, the iCorps team is dedicated to delivering excellence to our customers by staying ahead of market trends and understanding new technologies that could impact their business.

About The Channel Company

The Channel Company enables breakthrough IT channel performance with our dominant media, engaging events, expert consulting and education, and innovative marketing services and platforms. As the channel catalyst, we connect and empower technology suppliers, solution providers, and end users. Backed by more than 40 years of unequalled channel experience, we draw from our deep knowledge to envision innovative new solutions for ever-evolving challenges in the technology marketplace. www.thechannelcompany.com

Follow The Channel Company: Twitter, LinkedIn, and Facebook.

© 2023. CRN is a registered trademark of The Channel Company, LLC.  All rights reserved.