The Angels selected the contract of top prospect Zach Neto on Saturday, the team announced. Here’s what you need to know:

* Neto, a 22-year-old shortstop, has hit .444 with three home runs in 27 plate appearances with the Double-A Rocket City Trash Pandas this season.

* Selected No. 13 in the 2022 draft, Neto is bypassing Triple A with the promotion.

* In a corresponding move, the Angels are demoting David Fletcher to the Triple-A Salt Lake Bees. The infielder is batting .125 with just two hits through eight games this year.

It’s probably not a coincidence that this move was made after the Angels’ infield defense had a complete meltdown Friday. The Angels are optioning their best infield defender in Fletcher, but he’s not one they’re comfortable starting every day because of his offense. So the Angels needed to shore up their infield defense with an everyday player, and Neto is the guy.

Fletcher was 2-for-16 this season, and his offense has really fallen off since receiving a five-year, $26 million contract before the 2021 campaign.

Neto, drafted last year, is ranked No. 59 on The Athletic’s Keith Law’s Top 100 prospects. He had an excellent spring in major-league camp and had a 1.374 OPS in Double A to start the season. It’s a risk to call him up, but not a crazy one. — Blum

Neto is a definite shortstop who projects to be a plus defender, while at the plate he’s got some extra movement before he gets his swing going but then is very short to the ball. He makes above-average contact but doesn’t post elite exit velocities, getting to his power so far by consistently hitting the ball on a line and getting good carry for line-drive homers rather than big flies.

That might turn into a lot more doubles and fewer homers as he moves up and faces better pitching. Because of his high contact rates to date and ability to play short at a high level, even that would make him a strong regular. If the homers do last, he might be even more. — Law

Neto was ranked the No. 1 prospect in the Angels organization by Law in the spring.

Fletcher has struggled with injuries and ineffectiveness since 2022. His .255 batting average and .333 slugging percentage were both career lows last season. He was also limited to 61 games due to hip and hand injuries.