Cyprus

Opinion

Our View: Will National Security Council do any… Our View: Time to crack down on teens… Our View: Energy can open way for Cyprus… Our View: Youth unemployment is high because they…

World

Landslide kills at least 20 in eastern Congo

Life & Style

Book Review: Vacuum in the Dark by Jen…

Health

CM Videos

2023 is coming: How do you feel? (video)

The Department of Nursing of the Cyprus University of Technology (TEPAK) announced the launch of a two-year European programme in which it participates that will create an E-Learning Portal for Professionals to End FGM in Europe.

Academics, researchers and other experts from the Mediterranean Institute for Social and Gender Studies, the Nursing Department of TEPAK, the European Network END FGM, the Association of Family Planning in Portugal and the Italian Organisation for Women participate in the programme, in addition to Sustainable Development (AIDOS) and the Group on the Abolition of FGM (GAMS) in Belgium.

Specific supporting partners will contribute to the programme such as UNHCR and other national and international agencies.

The €718,000 project is financed by the European Commission.

Its main objective is to develop an online learning and information platform about female genital mutilation (FGM).

The platform will target professionals from various sectors – healthcare, asylum, social welfare, police, education and civil society – to provide culturally appropriate and specialised support and protection to women and girls affected by FGM.

The Council of Europe Convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence (Istanbul Convention) recognises female genital mutilation (FGM) as a form of gender-based violence, which has long-term psychological and physical effects on women and girls.

Comprehensive and systematic training and education of professionals in female genital mutilation (FGM) remains an imperative in Europe, as only three EU countries provide professionals with such training as part of their curriculum.

The opening meeting of the programme took place in Limassol in March under the auspices of the Nursing Department of TEPAK.

Unspeakable but grateful: Why is a desire to invest in a veterinary app worth considering?

Zero tolerance for reckless driving ahead of Easter, police warnsYgia Polyclinic joining Gesy, 30 doctors to walk out over ‘ticking time bomb’

Unspeakable but grateful: Why is a desire to invest in a veterinary app worth considering?

As is common practice with almost all professional websites, https://cyprus-mail.com (our “Site”) uses cookies, which are tiny files that are downloaded to your device, to improve your experience.

This document describes what information they gather, how we use it, and why we sometimes need to store these cookies. We will also share how you can prevent these cookies from being stored however this may downgrade or ‘break’ certain elements of the Site’s functionality.

How We Use Cookies

We use cookies for a variety of reasons detailed below. Unfortunately, in most cases, there are no industry standard options for disabling cookies without completely disabling the functionality and features they add to the site. It is recommended that you leave on all cookies if you are not sure whether you need them or not, in case they are used to provide a service that you use.

The types of cookies used on this Site can be classified into one of three categories:

Strictly Necessary Cookies: These are essential in order to enable you to use certain features of the website, such as submitting forms on the website.

Functionality Cookies: These are used to allow the website to remember choices you make (such as your language) and provide enhanced features to improve your web experience.

Analytical / Navigation Cookies: These cookies enable the site to function correctly and are used to gather information about how visitors use the site. This information is used to compile reports and help us to improve the site. Cookies gather information in an anonymous form, including the number of visitors to the site, where visitors came from, and the pages they viewed.

You can prevent the setting of cookies by adjusting the settings on your browser (see your browser’s “Help” option on how to do this). Be aware that disabling cookies may affect the functionality of this and many other websites that you visit. Therefore, it is recommended that you do not disable cookies.

In some special cases, we also use cookies provided by trusted third parties. Our Site uses [Google Analytics] which is one of the most widespread and trusted analytics solutions on the web for helping us to understand how you use the Site and ways that we can improve your experience. These cookies may track things such as how long you spend on the Site and the pages that you visit so that we can continue to produce engaging content. For more information on Google Analytics cookies, see the official Google Analytics page.

Google Analytics is Google’s analytics tool that helps our website to understand how visitors engage with their properties. It may use a set of cookies to collect information and report website usage statistics without personally identifying individual visitors to Google. The main cookie used by Google Analytics is the ‘__ga’ cookie.

In addition to reporting website usage statistics, Google Analytics can also be used, together with some of the advertising cookies, to help show more relevant ads on Google properties (like Google Search) and across the web and to measure interactions with the ads Google shows.

Learn more about Analytics cookies and privacy information.

An IP address is a numeric code that identifies your device on the Internet. We might use your IP address and browser type to help analyze usage patterns and diagnose problems on this Site and improve the service we offer to you. But without additional information, your IP address does not identify you as an individual.

When you accessed this Site, our cookies were sent to your web browser and stored on your device. By using our Site, you agree to the use of cookies and similar technologies.

Hopefully, the above information has clarified things for you. As it was previously mentioned, if you are not sure whether you want to allow the cookies or not, it is usually safer to leave cookies enabled in case it interacts with one of the features you use on our Site. However, if you are still looking for more information, then feel free to contact us via email at [email protected]

Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings.

If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This means that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cookies again.