Boots has been slammed for offering a car parking spot for 'less abled customers.'

The pharmacy chain was criticised for the choice of language, with some customers saying the term disabled is 'not a dirty word'.

The blue sign, which was erected in Norwich, includes a symbol of a person in a wheelchair below the chain's logo.

The shoppers have been left furious, with one saying: 'Boots UK, seriously? The term 'disabled' is not a dirty word. And the term 'less abled' is simply unacceptable. Why?

'Because "less abled" implies that people with disabilities are inferior, perpetuating negative and damaging stereotypes and attitudes that prevent them from being included and feeling like they belong.

'This mindset also reinforces societal norms that prioritise and centres able- bodiedness. Get off your high horse, Boots.'

Another woman, said: 'It's awful and I guess they thought it was better than disabled.'

While another wrote: 'Can I get in on this on a Sunday morning when needing to visit a Boots.....I'm slightly less abled that the night before?........Can't believe money was spent on this.'

While a fourth wrote: 'I really hope someone from Boots UK steps up, owns up, apologies publicly and corrects this.

'There is a severe level of education required here. And as for how this got through a review process beggars belief.'

However some shoppers disagreed with the backlash saying people are too easily offended.

One person wrote: 'There are so many ways people get offended or don't really care.

'I thought the correct words were 'People with Restricted Mobility' It turns out that's not right.

Anyone can be offended by anything these days. Are we going backwards with addressing these words?'

Boots has since removed the sign and responded to the post on Twitter.

The brand said: 'Thank you for bringing this to our attention.

'We completely accept and understand that this wording is not appropriate and can confirm that we are working to change this signage as a matter of priority.

'We sincerely apologise for any offence caused; Boots has always aimed to be inclusive to all and we will always champion this.'

The new sign has already been put in place and it reads 'accessible parking bay.'

It comes after crowds seeking a miracle cure for wrinkles have been queuing up for the latest anti-ageing cream at Boots.

More than 94,000 people signed up to a waiting list for an anti-ageing range from No 7, and many queued outside Boots stores up to two hours last week.

Demand soared for skincare range No 7 Future Renew Damage Reversal after impressive results of its ability to repair damage caused by the sun were presented last month at a meeting of the British Society for Investigative Dermatology.

The cream, developed over 15 years in collaboration with the University of Manchester, has been found to reduce the appearance of fine lines and wrinkles and improve skin firmness in clinical trials.

The clamour for the so-called 'Botox in a jar' is reminiscent of the company's Protect & Perfect serum, which featured on the BBC's Horizon programme in 2007.

The science show found that it was the only product that justified its price tag and this led to five months' worth of stock selling at Boots in a day.

No 7 Future Renew products, which include a day cream, night cream and eye serum, are priced from £24.95.

Richard Bowden, marketing director of No 7, said: 'Future Renew is our biggest ever launch and we are thrilled with the reception it's had.'

The cream uses two artificial peptides – versions of protein fragments in the skin which trigger repair.

Tests suggest the peptides regenerated the layer of proteins which makes the skin springy.