The Toronto Blue Jays will go against the Houston Astros in MLB action in Minute Maid Park, TX, on Wednesday, April 19, 2023, at 8:10 PM ET.

There isn’t much room for error in the American League East with the Rays cruising to an early lead with 13 straight victories and the shadow of the New York Yankees hanging over everything.

The Toronto Blue Jays are hoping that this is the year everything falls together for one of the best rosters in baseball.

The Blue Jays lost two straight games, including a 9-2 loss to the Astros on Monday night to open this series, after dominating five of six games, including two straight victories over the Rays.

In just 4.2 innings of work, Blue Jays starter Kevin Gausman allowed seven earned runs on seven hits.

he Blue Jays won 4-2 on Tuesday night thanks to home runs by Matt Chapman and Vlad Guerrero Jr., as well as 6.1 innings of scoreless relief from starter Chris Bassitt.

On Wednesday night, Toronto will start the series finale with Jose Berrios on the mound. Although Berrios is only 1-2 with a 6.98 ERA this year, he just had his best start-to-the-season outing.

Berrios beat Tampa Bay on Friday night after pitching five innings while allowing just four hits and one run. Berrios didn’t walk a single batter while striking out six.

* The Toronto Blue Jays are 10-4 SU in their last 14 matches.

* The Toronto Blue Jays are 6-2 SU in their last 8 matches on the road.

* The total went OVER in 10 of Toronto’s last 15 matches on the road against Houston.

As they continue their poor start, the Houston Astros are still hoping to break out in 2023. Although Houston is at 8-9 going into its game against Toronto on Tuesday night, they won two straight.

The extra-base hit helped the Astros defeat the Blue Jays on Monday night. Out of their 10 hits, the Astros pounded out two home runs—one each by Jake Myers and Corey Julks—and three doubles, cruising to a 9-2 victory.

The Astros lost game two 4-2 despite having eight hits but only going 2-for-9 with runners in scoring position.

On Wednesday, Luis Garcia, a struggling righty, will take the mound for the Astros. Garcia is 0-2 on the year and threw 14 innings while giving up 19 hits.

In his three starts, Garcia gave up 12 runs, three home runs, three walks, and just seven strikeouts.

Last year, Garcia had two starts against the Blue Jays and went 0-1; in those two games, he gave up four home runs and ten hits over 12 innings.

* The total went OVER in 12 of Houston’s last 17 matches.

* The total went UNDER in 7 of Houston’s last 10 matches against Toronto.

* The total went OVER in 9 of Houston’s last 11 matches at home.

Toronto Blue Jays vs Houston Astros. The MLB pick for this game is the Toronto Blue Jays.

Since the beginning of the season, the Blue Jays have been the more reliable of the two teams, and Berrios is returning from his best start of the year.

Garcia did not yet appear at ease on the mound as a result of his difficulties adjusting to the new mechanics he had to incorporate into his delivery this season as a result of the regulation changes.

Garcia allowed four home runs to Toronto in two starts last year. He will now take on a Blue Jays lineup that is loaded with potential but did not quite show it this year.

With Altuve out of the starting lineup, the Astros’ lineup is still attempting to establish itself. Toronto had a strong performance versus Houston in the previous season, going 4-2 against the World Champions.

On Wednesday, the Blue Jays should win this series. The Toronto Blue Jays will win to a predicted score of 6-3.

MLB Free Premium Picks Predictions. Today’s entire Major League Baseball premium pick predictions are free right now at 1-888-711-4311 or text the word WINBIG to 760-670-3130 to receive them. Included are Best Bets, Totals, Parlays and First Five Inning winners for today free of charge.

Click Here For More MLB Baseball Video Free Picks