Swimsuit season is just around the corner. Whether you’re a one-piece devotee or a bikini lover, we’ll all be shimmying into our swimsuits soon to indulge in summer fun. If you’re like me, choosing a new piece of swimwear is so exciting. Digging through the cuts, colors, and pretty patterns gives your brain an instant dose of serotonin. Recently, I found some gorgeous swimsuits while scrolling through Shopbop, and I haven’t been able to get them out of my head since.

If you’ve been dying to browse the prettiest swimsuits of the season, look no further. I’ve curated my favorite Shopbop swimsuits for you. Keep scrolling to uncover my favorite swimsuit finds from the coolest brands on Shopbop. Who knows? Maybe you’ll find a piece worth wearing to the beach this summer.

There’s something about an all-white swimsuit that hits differently.

I love the mix of greens and the symmetrical shapes on this bikini. Shop the matching bottoms here.

This bikini will fit you properly even if your weight fluctuates. Shop the bottoms here.

A midriff cutout is so on trend.

Such a vibrant and pretty color. Shop the bottoms here.

One-shoulder clothing is really having a moment.

I’m a big fan of color-blocking, and this swimsuit does it effortlessly.

Gingham will never get old.

The embroidery on this bikini is so beautiful. Shop the bottoms here.

This blue one-piece is so pretty.

This strapless look is so chic.

The tropical design on this one is so cute.

Neutral doesn’t have to be boring.

The straps on this one are detachable.

The mix of floral prints on this suit scream warm weather. Shop the bottoms here.

This top is so unique and definitely has an edgy vibe. Shop the bottoms here.

The contrasting colors and patterns on this bikini are a good sign. Shop the bottoms here.

Sometimes simple is best. Shop the bottoms here.

This is such a beautiful emerald green. Shop the bottoms here.

I love the pink hardware detailing on this suit.

This halter-top style of this one-piece is so pretty.

This suit gives off futuristic vibes all around.

The tie on the front is such a pretty detail.

For anyone who surfs, this suit is quite pretty.

Next, Topshop, H&M, and Mango Just Dropped Their 2023 Swimwear—Shop These Styles First