Stakelogic has bolstered its Dutch positioning after agreeing to supply Netherlands-facing operator OneCasino with its full roster of classic slots and modern video slots.

With this partnership, OneCasino’s Dutch player base will be able to spin the reels of slots from Stakelogic’s collection of slot titles, in addition to the company’s range of live casino games from its Stakelogic Live offering.

Olga Bajela, CCO at Stakelogic, stated: “We are thrilled to partner with OneCasino, a respected and rapidly growing online casino in the Netherlands. This collaboration allows us to bring our engaging slots and live dealer games to players in the Netherlands, further strengthening our presence in the Dutch market.

“The success of a studio is reflected in the quality of its operator partners, and OneCasino is a brand that understands how to deliver exceptional experiences to its players by providing a diverse selection of high-quality games, easy-to-use interfaces, and 24-hour customer support.

“The inclusion of our games in their lobby will enable them to elevate this experience even further.”

OneCasino’s online casino platform will benefit from both Stakelogic classic and modern slot catalogues, with Dutch players able to enjoy games such as Multi6Player, Big Runner Deluxe and Multi4Player.

Included in the supplier’s Stakelogic Live offering, OneCasino players will also access a selection of live casino games including an array of blackjack and roulette tables, auto roulette and classic auto roulette tables, and game show releases.

Mark Schram, CEO at OneCasino, added: “Stakelogic is a vital provider for any online casino, with its slots and Stakelogic Live titles offering thrilling, captivating, and highly entertaining gameplay.

“Partnerships like this enable us to distinguish ourselves from our competitors in the Netherlands market, and we eagerly anticipate our players enjoying the exhilarating gaming experiences that Stakelogic’s titles are known for.

“We are thrilled to offer Stakelogic’s collection of premium online casino games to OneCasino players. Thanks to Stakelogic’s cutting-edge technology and innovative design, we are confident that the titles will provide OneCasino players with exhilarating gaming experiences that exceed their expectations.”

Additionally, the two entities have outlined plans for a dedicated, branded live casino experience that is currently in the works.

Schram added: “At OneCasino, we understand the critical role that responsible gaming and regulatory compliance plays in providing our players with a safe and enjoyable gaming experience. That is why we are proud to partner with Stakelogic as they share our values of gambling in a safe environment

“Our collaboration with Stakelogic reflects our commitment to providing our players with a responsible, secure, and entertaining gaming experience. We are thrilled to be collaborating with a company that shares our values, and we look forward to continuing to provide our players with access to new games.”