We Spoke To The Guy Who Created The Viral AI Image Of The Pope That Fooled The World

“I just thought it was funny to see the Pope in a funny jacket,” he told BuzzFeed News.

Congress Wanted Me To Turn Over A Document About TikTok’s Links To China. Here’s Why I Refused.

I don’t have high hopes for Thursday’s congressional hearing about the app.

A Journalist Believes He Was Banned From Midjourney After His AI Images Of Donald Trump Getting Arrested Went Viral

“I suspect it was pushing my luck when I did the [Twitter] thread,” Bellingcat founder Eliot Higgins said.

Voice Deepfakes Of Everyone From Joe Rogan To Joe Biden Are Taking Over Social Media

The clips are hilarious, though the implications of the tech “are pretty scary,” one creator said.

An NFT Guy Who Said A Car Crash Put Him In A Five-Month Coma Was Making The Whole Thing Up

The 23-year-old "crypto detective" told BuzzFeed News that the viral story was "performance art" meant to draw attention to his NFT investigation.

Vloggers Hank And John Green Want You To Take College Courses On YouTube

The brothers announced their new educational initiative, Study Hall, a partnership with Arizona State University and YouTube.

A Professional Artist Spent 100 Hours Working On This Book Cover Image, Only To Be Accused Of Using AI

The artist known as Ben Moran said they were unjustly suspended from r/Art for posting their piece there.

Meet The YouTuber Everyday Astronaut, Who's Actually Going To The Moon Next Year

“It’s insane to think about going 240,000 miles away from home,” the 37-year-old said.

"I Can’t Let Him Win Now": The Student Behind The Suspended Twitter Account That Tracked Elon Musk's Private Jet Vowed To Fight On

“I'm pretty surprised, especially after [Musk] put out a tweet saying he wouldn't do it,” 20-year-old Jack Sweeney said of the suspension.

Five Foreign Diplomats Left Britain Last Year After Allegedly Committing Serious Crimes

An individual connected to the Mexican embassy was accused of two child sexual offences, while others from Gabon and Saudi Arabia's diplomatic missions faced allegations of actual bodily harm and human trafficking.