The ulcerative colitis (UC) market across the eight major markets (8MM*) is forecast to grow at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 2.8% from $7.2 billion in 2021 to $9.6 billion in 2031, driven by the potential introduction of 11 promising late-stage pipeline products and an increase in the prevalent patient population, according to GlobalData, a leading data and analytics company.

GlobalData’s report, “Ulcerative Colitis (UC) Market Size and Trend Report including Epidemiology, Disease Management, Pipeline Analysis, Competitor Assessment, Unmet Needs, Clinical Trial Strategies and Forecast to 2031,” reveals that 11 pipeline therapies—Roivant Sciences’ RVT-3101, AbbVie’s Skyrizi (risankizumab), Eli Lilly’s mirikizumab, Janssen’s Tremfya, Boehringer Ingelheim’s Spesolimab, Reistone Biopharma’s ivarmacitinib, Pfizer’s ritlecitinib and etrasimod, NImmune Biopharma’s omilancor, Abivax’s obefazimod and InDex Pharma’s cobitolimod—will enter the UC market. Agents with novel routes of administration are anticipated to differentiate such therapies in the UC market.

Ramla Salad, Pharma Analyst at GlobalData, comments: “The UC market is crowded with genericized steroids and immunomodulators as well as tumor necrosis factor (TNF) inhibitors such as Remicade (infliximab) and Humira (adalimumab). These are unlikely to be replaced as first line oral analgesics. However, the prospect of novel pipeline therapies will be welcomed as they target an underserved population of patients who do not respond adequately to current therapies.”

Due to the new rectal route of administration cobitolimod offers, it is anticipated to make an impact in the UC market. Cobitolimod is forecast to launch in the US in 2028 but is expected to face competition from agents such as Janus Kinase (JAK) inhibitors ivarmacitinib, ritlecitinib which are also entering the US market in 2028.

Although the UC market is projected to grow in the 8MM over the forecast period, limited growth is anticipated in Japan. Mirikizumab and Skyrizi are the only late-stage pipeline products set to launch in Japan.

Salad concludes: “The US will remain as the dominant market throughout the forecast period. The launch of 11 pipeline products in the US prior to 2031 will create more treatment options for patients and address some of the unmet needs in the UC market to varying extents. As a result, considerable opportunity remains for players looking to enter the market in the future, particularly outside of the US.”

*8MM: US, France, Germany, Italy, Spain, the UK, Japan, and Canada.