The first hint of sunshine and we’re thinking about all the new season trendswe want to try out. We’re talking double (or even triple) denim fits, one-shoulder tops with baggy jeans and bomber jackets for those unpredictable weather days. Trust us, spring outfits are so hot this season we had to do a round of the key items to buy, and the cool ways to wear them.

Consider this your definitive guide to the best spring outfits of 2023.

Giving us a flashback to the early 00s, the denim – more specifically, bandeau – dress is making a huge comeback. Spotted all over the high street, it’s easy to find strapless versions in mini, midi and maxi lengths. Not a fan of the bandeau look? Fear not, as the denim dress is generally one of the key spring outfits for women this year. Why not try it out with a matching denim baguette bag?

The question ‘do I need a jacket?’ is something we ask ourselves every day in the UK, and the answer is always yes. Spring weather is up and down, so make sure you’re prepared with a bomber jacket. Not only practical, but it’s also the cover-up that’ll complete all your spring outfits to perfection. Wearing a crop top and jeans like Antonia Jade? Add a varsity-style bomber. Going to brunch in a slip-dress? Add an oversized bomber jacket with trainers. Heading to the airport? Wear with tracksuit bottoms and a T-shirt. So much spring outfit potential.

That’s right, the mini skirt (as seen at Miu Miu) is sticking around for yet another season. Love Island’s Ellie Spencestyles a simple black mini with a classic white tee, the hero bomber jacket and knee-high boots. When temperatures are on the rise, you could easily swap out the boots for a pair of chunky flatform sandals – this is one of our favourite spring outfits.

The trouser suit never fails to impress: as a spring wedding guest outfit, a spring work outfit or a night out look this versatile two-piece can do know wrong. Wear the blazer as a top like Marii Pazz for a bar and add a vest top and loafers for the office. Pink is still the colour of the year thanks to all things #BarbieCore, but soft sorbet suiting was also spotted all over the runways for spring/summer 2023.

Another Y2K trend is back and ready to be the base of all our spring outfits: cargo trousers. Whether you go full-on All Saints circa 2001 vibes with a camouflage pair or opt for a more tailored style, trust us, you’ll wear them on repeat all year. As comfy as they are stylish, these baggy pants will take you from work to weekend with minimal effort needed. And they look just as good with trainers or sandals as they do with heels – see Jourdan Riane for proof.

It may sound boring, but trust us, everyone needs to own a white vest top. Whether you wear with sweatpants and a leather blazer for a relaxed work look (like Bethan Sowerby), style with bikini bottoms for the beach or add under a skirt suit, you’ll wear it on heavy rotation. Although you can get them for a few pounds, invest in a good-quality version and it’ll last you for multiple spring outfits for years to come.

If a mini isn’t your thing, you’ll want to know about the latest obsession with all things maxi. Both skirts and dresses are back with a bang for spring, and while Poppy wears a black style, denim is also key to creating some killer spring outfits. And they look good on absolutely anyone – Poppy shows how a maxi skirt is also a great plus-size spring outfit, styling it with a corset top (another mini trend) and heels. Love, love, love!

Now you know the key items that’ll create the best spring outfits, along with ways to style them, you’ll also want to get ahead with summer outfits. Luckily, we’ve already created a guide on the best outfits for summer you can save for later.