BIRKENSTOCK sandals were popular in the 1990s and loved by fashion icons including Bella Hadid, Kendall Jenner and Mary-Kate Olsen.

But last year, they made their way back into our wardrobes again thanks to their versatility and comfort.

So if you're looking to nab yourself a pair ready for summer without having to pay the hefty price tag, then look no further than M&S.

Shoppers have been going wild after spotting a dupe of the £65 Birkenstock Arizona sandals for a fraction of the price.

Both versions look almost identical and feature a similar two strap design as well as a faux suede foot-bed and cork soles - but there's one major difference.

The M&S 'Leather Two Strap Sandals' retail at just £25, making them a whopping £40 cheaper than the Birkenstock Arizona sandals.

The M&S dupes were shared on Instagram account @galslovehighstreet alongside a caption which read: "Can’t beat @marksandspencer shoes & accessories. The Birkenstock dupes are amazing quality."

They come in a wide range of colours - including white, brown, black , silver and green.

FABULOUS BINGO: Get a £20 bonus & 30 free spins when you spend £10 today

So it's little surprise the replica sandals have been inundated with five-star reviews online, with many praising them for their "superb value" and "comfort."

"Perfect summer sandals. Bought these in the past in other colours. So comfortable and last for more than one summer. Sizing is on point. So easy to wear. Slip on and go," wrote one.

A second enthused: "These are a great price, really comfy as they’re adjustable."

A third praised: "I have the white two buckle sliders and they are perfect for my beach holiday and go with so many outfits. They’re comfortable and would recommend."

Meanwhile, a fourth commented: "Comfortable and stylish for holidays and warmer weather. Soft moulded instep with easily adjustable straps."

Another added: "Fabulous fit, true to size. Very soft and comfortable. Easily adjustable."

And one more penned: "Extremely comfortable have had many compliments while wearing them. Superb value."