BOSTON — For the second day in a row, the Red Sox offense battled back from an early deficit and then capitalized on costly errors from the Angels.

Two catcher’s interference calls in the eighth inning, followed by a clutch two-run single from Yu Chang with the bases loaded, helped the Red Sox beat the Angels 9-7 on Saturday.

“Just like we drew it up,” manager Alex Cora said, smirking.

Friday, the Red Sox capitalized on three Angels errors for a victory.

The Red Sox offense has shown its fair share of fight this season but has had to bail out its starting pitching in nearly every victory, and Saturday was no different. Through 15 games, the Red Sox have yet to have a starter pitch more than five innings, and they have had starts of four innings or fewer in six games. That Nick Pivetta even reached the fifth inning Saturday was a surprise given the first-inning grand slam he gave up that put the Red Sox in an early hole.

Pivetta settled down from the second inning through the fourth, but he allowed the first three batters to reach in the fifth without recording an out. By the time Kaleb Ort got out of the inning, the first deficit the Red Sox offense had overcome was erased.

“It’s been tough,” Cora said of the short starts taxing the bullpen. “It’s kind of too soon to survive, to be honest with you. We’ve got to be better early on. We will be better. We’ll take this one. We’ll sit down and see what we’ve got left Sunday.”

The Gio Urshela grand slam in the first inning marked a major-league-worst 20th homer Red Sox starters have surrendered this season. The group’s 6.99 ERA ranks 29th in baseball.

Entering Saturday, Pivetta had been the only starter to put up decent numbers in the early part of the season with three runs allowed (but just one earned run) through his first 10 innings against Detroit and Tampa Bay. But against the Angels, he exited with six runs allowed in four innings of work.

“Today was about all those guys in the bullpen,” Cora said. “At one point, we were adding and subtracting. … It was one of those days grinding. The thing about today and tomorrow, how we’re going to pull this off, I’m glad that we got the lead to give it to the big guy (Kenley Jansen), but after that, honestly, there wasn’t much back there.”

It’s undoubtedly an unsustainable model with the bullpen on fumes and the offense having to come from behind so many times, but the rotation will be getting a new look soon enough.

Garrett Whitlock returned from the injury list last week and is scheduled to make his second start of the season Sunday. Brayan Bello is set to return from the IL on Monday and make his first start after forearm tightness slowed his spring training progression. James Paxton, who pitched in Triple-A Worcester on Friday and flashed 97 mph while reporting he felt good mechanically, could be back within two weeks if all goes well. Paxton is still working on refining his breaking ball and will likely have two more rehab starts, but a late-April return is possible.

What that means for the current group of starters remains to be seen. Chris Sale and Corey Kluber, who have struggled early on, will stay in their spots, as will Whitlock, but there’s a chance Tanner Houck will slide into the bullpen with Bello’s return. Pivetta’s rotation spot might also be in jeopardy when Paxton returns.

Cora acknowledged that with such a thin bullpen due to short starts, the team hasn’t quite mapped out how to make room for Bello.

“There’s just different scenarios,” he said before Saturday’s game, noting who was available in the bullpen over the next two games will play a factor on the immediate front.

Even with the pitching in tatters, the Red Sox offense once again showed some resilience. Rafael Devers’ major-league-leading seventh homer of the season in the first inning, with Rob Refsnyder on second, cut the early deficit in half. Devers hit into a double play that scored another run in the third before the Red Sox took a brief lead in the fourth. Connor Wong doubled, and Chang had his first big hit of the day, a two-run homer that gave the Red Sox a 5-4 lead. After starting the season 0-for-28, the homer was Chang’s first hit of the year. Refsnyder drove in another run, but the lead was erased with Pivetta’s tough fifth inning.

The Angels inched ahead 7-6 in the sixth with a run against Richard Bleier, but a thin bullpen led by John Schreiber, Ryan Brasier and Jansen held the Angels in check before the weird eighth inning featuring the aforementioned catcher’s interference calls. Raimel Tapia’s line drive to the wall appeared to be caught but after review was ruled a single because his bat connected with Angels catcher Matt Thais. Two batters later, Reese McGuire fouled off a ball but hit Thais’ glove in the process and reached first to load the bases before Chang’s two-run single. Refsnyder walked with the bases loaded and pushed across an insurance run. Jansen shut it down for his 395th career save in just seven pitches.

Pivetta said the starters need to step up and pitch deeper and credited his offense for bailing him out.

“It’s really important. Obviously, it’s early in the year and workloads are going to be what they are,” he said. “Adjustments to the pitch clock too, but our relievers have done a tremendous job going out there and doing their jobs. A couple long men in the bullpen to give some ease on the late-inning relievers, but they showed up and put up zeroes today.”

At some point, the rotation needs to put up more zeroes, but changes are coming regardless.