Question      Do gaps in health insurance coverage increase the risk of unmet vision care needs in Ohio adults compared with continuous coverage?

Findings      In a cross-sectional study of survey data for 19 036 adults in Ohio, gaps in coverage increased the risk of unmet vision care needs as compared with continuous public or private coverage.

Meaning      Increasing continuity of health insurance coverage may promote access to vision care among adults and decrease burden of eye diseases.

Importance      Access to vision care is vital to diagnose and treat vision impairment and diseases. Previous studies found that currently uninsured adults have limited access to vision care. It is unclear whether a recent history (past 12 months) of gaps in insurance coverage likewise adversely affects access to vision care.

Objective      To determine whether gaps in insurance coverage within the past 12 months are associated with higher risk of unmet needs for vision care among adults in Ohio.

Design, Setting, and Participants      This cross-sectional study analyzed data for adults in Ohio from the 2021 Ohio Medicaid Assessment Survey (OMAS), which is conducted via web, telephone, and mail. Participants were residents 19 years or older who reported needing vision care or eyeglasses within the past 12 months.

Exposures      Insurance coverage over the past 12 months, classified as continuous private, continuous public, gap in coverage, or year-round uninsured.

Main Outcomes and Measure      Self-reported unmet need for vision care over the past 12 months.

Results      Based on a sample of 19 036 participants, we calculated that 4% of adults experienced recent coverage gaps (weighted total in the population, 180 259 of 4 518 841) while another 4% were year-round uninsured (187 552 adults). Unmet needs for vision care were reported by 13% (590 015 adults). On multivariable logistic regression, adults with gaps in coverage were at a higher risk of unmet vision care needs compared with adults who had continuous private coverage (odds ratio [OR], 2.9; 95% CI, 2.1-3.9; P P = .001).

Conclusions and Relevance      This study found that gaps in health insurance coverage were associated with increased risk of unmet vision care needs among adults in Ohio compared with continuous private or public coverage. Policies that protect the continuity of health insurance coverage may help reduce the rate of unmet needs for vision care.