Most consumer stories are about why an item is so expensive and whether it’s a good deal.

But I want to know why this particular item – fillet steak – is so cheap.

Fillet steak, also known as Filet Mignon, is a premium cut known for its tenderness. It comes from the lower back of the cattle beast and although it might not be as flavoursome as other cuts, it’s hard to beat.

READ MORE:

* Meat offcuts offer cheap, tasty meals for winter

* Martin van Beynen: Baby question for Jacinda in the real world of employers

* Restaurant review: Bloody Mary's, Christchurch

Anyway, the extended family is coming for dinner.

What to serve as a generous host? I’m in the Christchurch central city FreshChoice looking at options when I spy its fillet steak offer.

A similar portion of fillet steak from New World retails at $54.49 a kg.

Whole fillets at $29.99 a kilogram or $50 for a 1.66kg slab of delicious prime protein. I know a bargain when I see it and I can already smell it sizzling on the Weber.

It’s not the first time the FreshChoice City Market, which opened in 2017, has offered cheap whole fillets and I have bought the specials before. The price has been as low as $20 a kilogram.

But at the back of my mind there’s a niggle in the sizzle. How come this big chunk of New Zealand fillet is so cheap? A similar portion of New Zealand fillet from New World retails at $54.49 a kg, so a similar whole fillet would cost about $90. At the best butchers, a kilogram of eye fillet will set you back $64.

I’m saving $40, so why look a gift cow in the mouth? I’d still like to know.

For instance, is the meat deal being used as a loss-leader or is it one of those cancelled export orders with a best before date? Or maybe a lot of cattle came on the market at the same time and needed processing. The answer should be a phone call away.

Heather Brown and husband Neville Brown, owners of FreshChoice supermarkets in Barrington and The Crossing.

My inquiries start with current supplier Prime Range Meats Ltd.

The company was an old established Southland meat processor experiencing hard times when a company called Cuilam Industry Ltd bought the 75 % it didn’t already own in 2017. It paid $13.4 million.

Cuilam Industry’s 80 million shares are owned by Auckland business people Weimin Wang (also the sole director) and Zhongming Wang.

I ring Cuilam and email them as well but don’t get a response.

Next stop is FreshChoice City Market. The supermarket is owned by Neville and Heather Brown, who also own Barrington FreshChoice.

Their area manager is Hamish Robinson who is based at the Barrington branch. He says he will have to check with the owners before answering any questions and then does not get back to me despite a reminder.

My next call is a contact who has been selling New Zealand meat overseas for decades.

He says the price is great value and advises jumping in and buying up large.

Maybe you can help with this story. Email martin.vanbeynen@stuff.co.nz

He comes up with several possible reasons for the cheap fillet. Meat prices have softened due to demand in China still recovering from lockdown, he says. As an example, he points to the great leg of lamb bargains around lately.

The cheap fillets – he calls them tenders or tenderloins – could be loss-leaders, he says, or a lower grade of tender.

13-year-old Nate Lawson made history at the Steak Cookoff Association competition, becoming New Zealand's youngest ever winner and securing a place a the World Championships. (Video first published in June, 2021)

Top grade beef comes from prime steers bred for beef production. The lower grades of beef come from bulls and end-of-life dairy cows and usually end up as burger beef, he says.

But the tenderloin, “the laziest muscle in the animal”, in those animals, could be salvaged and sold as fillet steak.

The trade calls the cut “cow tenderloin” but there’s nothing to prevent them being called fillet steak, he says.

I make one last attempt to get Robinson on the phone. Without success. Well, you can’t flog a dead cow.