A blog for Sean Gaffney to review manga, anime, cartoons, and occasionally to ramble on about diverse and sundry notions.   But yeah, mostly manga reviews.

The Magical Revolution of the Reincarnated Princess and the Genius Young Lady, Vol. 4

By Piero Karasu and Yuri Kisaragi. Released in Japan as “Tensei Oujo to Tensai Reijou no Mahou Kakumei” by Fujimi Fantasia Bunko. Released in North America by Yen On. Translated by Haydn Trowell.

Since my review of the third volume, we have had the anime versio9n of this series, which covered the first three books.  In my opinion, it was a fantastic success, and the way that it adapted the books, changing and cutting things to the anime’s benefit, was a definite highlight.  That said, there were some people who bemoaned a lot of the world building and discussion of magical technicalities getting cut from the anime.  If that was you, good news!  The books are still here, and they are still being very nerdy.  This volume digs deep into the heart of magic vs. magicology, and why the latter is terrifying a number of the nobles remaining at everyone’s least favorite ministry.  Can you change the prejudices and thoughts of an entire country by letting go of the past, or does the past need to be embraced as well?  And, most importantly, why are all the books written like they sell for $200 on Amazon from Paletia University Press?

Anis and Euphie are now a couple, although it would appear their intimacy in bed is limited to Euphie taking Anis’ magical energy rather than taking Anis.  Moreover, Anis now has two new assistants, since Euphie’s additional responsibilities mean she can’t be Anis’ assistant anymore.  Halphys and Garkie… erm, Gark help Anis to think about what about magicology would help win over the nobles, who already have magic to do what she’s doing with kettles and the like?  There’s also the problem of Lainie.  Now that the dust has settled and she has a prominent position in Anis’ household, she’s getting marriage offers she does not want.  And, of course, there’s the succession, as Anis’ father decides that now is the time to step down from the throne and let the next ruler take over.  Who will be Queen?  (I mean, we know who’ll be Queen, but let’s pretend we don’t.)

I had to laugh at the appearance of Tilty in this book.  She’s there for about five pages, tells everyone they’re idiots, is absolutely infuriated, and storms off, having started the process of solving the problem.  Unfortunately, the problem with Lainie is her crippling self-hatred, as the idea that anyone might actually be in love with her and not just influenced by her vampire powers causes her to have a complete meltdown.  It was also nice to see Ilia actually screw up, and show that the relationship she and Anis have is very beneficial to them but can also be detrimental in regards to others.  As for Anis and the Ministry of the Arcane, I also enjoyed how that played out.  The remaining nobles know what the winning side is, they just want to ensure that they still have a place somewhere on it.  You don’t want to help with your own downsizing.

I had a ball reading this book, and think those who enjoyed the anime will as well.  It also wraps up nicely as a finale to the series… but don’t worry, there’s more coming.

Did you enjoy this article? Consider supporting us.

a sister’s all you need

abandoned heiress gets rich with alchemy and scores an enemy general

alchemist who survived now dreams of a quiet city life

alice in the country of hearts

alya sometimes hides her feelings in russian

another world’s zombie apocalypse is not my problem

anything and something

apparently it’s my fault that my husband has the head of a beast

are you ok with a slightly older girlfriend?

as the villainess i reject these happy-bad endings

attack on titan before the fall

breasts are my favorite things in the world!

by the grace of the gods

can someone please explain what’s going on?!

champions of justice & the supreme ruler of evil

chitose is in the ramune bottle

didn’t I say to make my abilities average in the next life?!

dirty way to destroy the goddess’s heroes

do you love your mom?

don’t disturb me and him please

even dogs go to other worlds

executioner and her way of life

for the kid i saw in my dreams

forget being the villainess i want to be an adventurer

formerly the fallen daughter of the duke

from the new world

genius prince’s guide to raising a nation out of debt

go for it nakamura

go with the clouds north by northwest

greatest demon lord is reborn as a typical nobody

hanako and the terror of allegory

hero and his elf bride open a pizza parlor in another world

high school prodigies have it easy even in another world

how heavy are the dumbbells you lift?

how not to summon a demon lord

how to melt the ice queen’s heart

i don’t like you at all big brother

i hate you more than anyone!

i married my best friend to shut my parents up

i refuse to be your enemy!

i saved too many girls and caused the apocalypse

i want to eat your pancreas

i will cook with my fluffy friends

i’d rather have a cat than a harem!

i’ll never set foot in that house again!

i’m in love with the villainess

i’m the villainess so i’m taming the final boss

if it’s for my daughter i’d even defeat a demon lord

if the rpg world had social media

in another world with my smartphone

in the land of leadale

in this corner of the world

is it wrong to try to pick up girls in a dungeon?

jk haru is a sex worker in another world

juana and the dragonewts’ seven kingdoms

kiss him not me

kiss me at the stroke of midnight

last and first idol

last of the mohicans

love me love me not

magic in this other world is too far behind!

master of ragnarok and blesser of einherjar

may these leaden battlegrounds leave no trace

my friend’s little sister has it in for me!

my next life as a villainess

my quiet blacksmith life in another world

my stepmom’s daughter is my ex

my youth romantic comedy is wrong as i expected

npcs in this village sim game must be real

of the red the light and the ayakashi

our crappy social game club is gonna make the most epic game

our last crusade or the rise of a new world

please tell me galko-chan

raven of the inner palace

reign of the seven spellblades

reincarnated as the last of my kind

rokka: braves of the six flowers

sacrificial princess and the king of beasts

secretly i’ve been suffering about being sexless

seven princes of the thousand year labyrinth

she and her cat

she professed herself pupil of the wise man

she’s the cutest but we’re just friends

sidekick never gets the girl

so i’m a spider so what?

so you want to live the slow life

sorry for my familiar

suppose a kid from the last dungeon boonies moved to a starter town

surviving in another world as a villainess fox girl

that time i got reincarnated as a slime

there was no secret evil-fighting organization

there’s no way a side character like me could be popular right?

though i am an inept villainess

turning the tables on the seatmate killer

until death do us part

walking my second path in life

way of the househusband

welcome to the ballroom

welcome to the erotic bookstore

what did you eat yesterday

world of otome games is tough for mobs

yamada-kun and the seven witches

you like me don’t you?

The Magical Revolution of the Reincarnated Princess and the Genius Young Lady LN 4 review:   https://t.co/pLva7vnf8x…  Zoku Zetsubou-sensei 6 is a classic in the series, especially for segments 2 and 3.  The "all a dream" segment is e…  https://t.co/mV1r5o7YA1  I love the implication in that Switch ad that playing Birdie Wing games will get your cute co-worker to notice you. God, the Skip and Loafer anime is just killing it.  Fantastic episode.