A Greek-Australian grandfather was crushed to death in a Melbourne carwash after he became trapped, likely confused by a flashing green arrow encouraging him to drive inside, even though he had entered the wrong code.

73-year-old Athanasios Papageorgiou fought for his life after becoming trapped inside a Puma branded carwash in Springvale, southeast of Melbourne, in November 2019. He died three days later.

The father of two and grandfather had told his wife Maria that he was simply going out to get fuel when a snap decision to wash his car ended his life prematurely.

Lawyers representing international oil company Chevron appeared before the Melbourne Magistrates' Court on Tuesday after the company was charged over the death of Papageorgiou.

His funeral was on December 9 that year after he died from his injuries three days after the accident.

On Tuesday, an expert engaged by WorkSafe to investigate the deadly car wash suggested better signage could have saved Mr Papageorgiou's life.

Dr Peter Hart told the court motorists entering the car wash had no idea if the entry codes they used to engage the carwash had been entered correctly.

'I came to the view that signage could have reduced the risk of this type of incident occurring because the driver would have been informed that the code had not been accepted and so the car shouldn't proceed into the car wash,' he told the court.

Dr Hart said green flashing arrows prompting motorists to enter the car wash added further confusion.

'The green flashing arrows which invite the driver to drive into the car wash could be suppressed unless the code has been accepted,' he said.

'I think the presence of those green flashing arrows is quite confusing to a driver because it's quite possible for a code not to be accepted and yet it seems that the driver is being invited to drive into the car wash.

'The consequence being that the driver would then have to get out the car or drive out to fix it.'

The watchdog alleges Mr Papageorgiou was killed under similar circumstances.

Dr Hart said the issue could have been rectified 'fairly easily'.

'I think you could also have a sign that says "code accepted" or "code not accepted" which is on until the code is accepted . I think there are reasonable prospects a driver not knowing anything much about how the car wash operates would not proceed in the presence of such a sign,' he said.

Documents released to Daily Mail Australia revealed Mr Papageorgiou was screaming in agony as staff, police and paramedics tried desperately but fruitlessly to free him.

The court heard police and paramedics were quick to respond to the emergency, arriving within minutes of Mr Papageorgiou becoming trapped in the car wash.

Documents stated Mr Papageorgiou was left 'screaming and unable to move'.

'Alerted by another customer, sales assistants at the service station attempted but could not free (the man) and called emergency services,' documents stated.

'Minutes later, two ambulances arrived at the scene, Victoria Police members also attended.'

The court heard paramedics could not release him and promptly ascertained the man's heart had stopped beating.

It took Country Fire Authority firefighters 16 minutes to arrive at the scene and extricate Mr Papageorgiou from the machine.

Paramedics were then able to 'reanimate' the unconscious Mr Papageorgiou and took him to hospital.

However Mr Papageorgiou died days later from the long period without oxygen to the brain caused by 'crash asphyxia'.

On Monday, a witness described the shocking moment Mr Papageorgiou rushed to his doom inside the car wash.

Pietrina Di Noto had been next in line to have her vehicle washed when she watched the horrific incident unfold.

She told the court the elderly man's fate was sealed when he attempted to make it into the front seat of his car after the car wash fired into action.

WorkSafe Victoria hit Chevron with four negligence charges after the man drove into the carwash before getting out of his car to re-enter an access code. The court heard he was crushed when he tried to get back into his vehicle when the wash cycle had started, with his car door becoming stuck by a gantry.

Ms Di Noto told the court she saw Mr Papageorgiou jump out of his car to enter the code.

Addressing the court on day one of the preliminary hearing, Ms Di Noto said Mr Papageorgiou 'roughly' asked her to move her vehicle so he could enter the code.

'He saw the machine move and started to run,' she said.

Ms Di Noto said she saw water starting to flow from the carwash as Mr Papageorgiou desperately tried to re-enter the front seat of his vehicle.

'I thought "Oh no, please get into the back seat",' she said.

Ms Di Noto said Mr Papageorgiou managed to open the front door wide enough to get a foot inside before he was cut down by the car wash.

'It would have been better if he'd just walked out,' she said. 'It was clear to me.'

'It was obviously dangerous to get in the front,' she said. 'I was shocked.'

The hearing will conclude next month.

READ MORE: OOCL SPAIN: One of the largest container ships in the world is now in Piraeus - Watch the video.