Deciding what kind of dress to wear can be frustrating. Here are six types of dresses you will need to have in your closet so that you are prepared for any occasion.

The Bohemian aesthetic is reminiscent of the 60s and 70s, and it is back in fashion. Cute boho dresses are flowy and have bold, funky patterns or really cute designs. You can add on chunky jewelry and finish off the look with simple shoes like wedges or even cowboy boots.

Wrap dresses are like all other dresses, but the dress is wrapped around the waist side, typically with an attached belt. The front closure creates a subtle body look that you will absolutely love! You will look visually taller and slimmer, and who does not want that?

If you must go to a casual party, a maxi dress is a great choice. Maxi dresses fall to the floor fashionably. A fancy embellished maxi dress can be worn to ballrooms or big parties. These dresses are very comfortable. Slip on some sparkly sandals and simple jewelry to finish the look.

As the name suggests, printed dresses are dresses with different patterns and designs on the clothing material. The clothing consists of geometric patterns, historical designs, and other complex, beautiful prints you can wear anywhere. The best thing about this type of dress is that it is a full one-piece suit with pretty designs, so you just have to slip into it, and you are ready to go.

A peplum dress has flared strips of cloth fastened at the waist of the dress. It is a fancy outfit you can match with heels or flats, depending on your liking. Peplum dresses are a commendable choice that could make you look lavish and elegant.

Skirts are the lower portion of a dress hanging around your waist and legs. Skirts make women look lovely. Neutral tones in skirts are classic. You can wear a white shirt with a neutral-colored skirt and neat ankle boots, giving you a charming and quirky look. The lengths of skirts vary so you can select from multiple alternatives that are available.

You cannot compromise on footwear after wearing a show-stopping dress. Below are some footwear options for dresses that women must have.

White sneakers with a dress is an unorthodox yet charming look. The best thing is that you can wear them with any casual dress, and white shoes elevate any dress you wear.

Heels are a must-have for a woman. Preferably, neutral-toned heels like beige and cream will accompany any dress portraying an admirable look. You can choose wedge heels, cone heels, french heels, and other types of heels as you like.

Did someone call for comfy slippers? Sandals are here to save you. Put on some cute sandals when you do not feel like wearing heels. Pastel-colored sandals matching your outfit are a win!

Your look is not complete without essentials like jewelry and handbags. Such add-ons create a fine outfit everyone will praise.

As a woman, you must know how important jewelry is with any dress. Silver jewelry is great for casual looks. However, you can wear shimmery necklaces and embellished bracelets if you want a sparkly look. Do not forget to wear earrings to brighten up your look. All in all, wearing jewelry will make you look stylish.

Leaving the house without carrying a bag with your essential items is impossible. Shoulder bags go pleasantly well with dresses, but you could also take handbags. Choose a bag according to your outfit style and comfort.

There are some accessories that elevate one’s outfit. For instance, pairing a belt with a dress will give it a trendy look. Similarly, stylish shawls look great with dresses.

There are multiple dresses a woman must have in her closet to dress up nicely. The items mentioned above are essential to have so you do not panic about what to wear to a gathering. Try out the outfit choices listed, and you will be grateful later.