The following are betting tips for selected fixtures in Gameweek 32 of the 2022/23 English Premier League.  Where two or more options are provided for the same tip, pick the one that best suits your risk appetite.

My best bets each week are published on AusSportsTipping.com

Compare EPL bookmaker odds

View bookmaker football promotions (excl. NSW & WA)

View the EPL form guide

Click here to pre-fill the bets below into your betting slip with BoomBet.

You can then input your stakes and amend the betslip as you see fit.

Arsenal in the head-to-head at 1.20 (bet365)

Arsenal have gone 15-2-0 as the home favourite over the last twelve months and they have scored 2+ goals in eight of their last nine games.  Southampton bring a three-game losing and a six-game winless streak into this game and they have failed to scored in their last three away fixtures.  Arsenal won this fixture 3-0 last season.

Leeds’ recent relegation worries are primarily due to their porous defence, which has conceded 2+ goals in five of their last six games.  Three of their last four opponents have scored 4+ goals.  Offensively, Leeds are much stronger, having found the back of the net in each of their last six games.  The combination of the two has seen each of Leeds’ last six games go over 2.5 goals, with five of those fixtures surpassing 3.5 goals.  Fulham, meanwhile, have seen 10 of their 15 home games this season go over 2.5 goals.  Leeds have only managed 2 clean sheets in their last 18 away games, while Fulham have only managed 3 clean sheets in their 15 home games this season.  All three previous EPL meetings between the two since 2020 have gone over 2.5 goals and two of those meetings went over 4.5 goals.

Liverpool have now played three good halves of football after they fought back from two goals down to draw Arsenal and then thrash Leeds 6-1.  Liverpool’s last five wins have all been by 2+ goals and their last two wins were by 5+ margins.  This is primarily a bet against Nottingham Forest’s away form, however.  Forest have gone 1-2-11 away from home this season and they have lost five consecutive away games.  Nine of Forest’s eleven away defeats this season were by 2+ goals.

Aston Villa in the head-to-head at 2.87 (bet365)

Aston Villa +0.5 (double chance) at 1.54 (Colossalbet)

Brentford bring 0-2-3 form into this game while Aston Villa are on a red-hot 7-1-0 run.  Much of Aston Villa’s run is down to their defence, which has conceded just two goals in their last eight games.  Offensively, things are humming along nicely too.  The Villans have scored 2+ goals in each of their last five games.

Newcastle in the head-to-head at 1.85 (Dabble)

Newcastle bring 5-0-1 form into this game and they have gone 8-4-1 as the home favourite over the last twelve months.  Tottenham bring indifferent 1-2-1 form into this clash and they were very fortunate to secure the one win during that run.  The three teams they failed to beat during that run were the relegation-threatened Southampton and Everton, plus Bournemouth.  Newcastle are currently of a much higher class than those sides and they have already beaten Tottenham away from home this season.