Will Norman claimed the Ultra Low Emission Zone is not part of 'anti-car agenda'

Will Norman claimed the Ultra Low Emission Zone is not part of 'anti-car agenda'

Sadiq Khan's cycling and walking tsar has claimed London's controversial Ultra Low Emission Zone (Ulez) is not part of an 'anti-car agenda'.

The London Mayor's walking and cycling commissioner Will Norman also said that in areas rife with Low Traffic Neighbourhoods (LTNs), trade and footfall of business has increased 'by 40 per cent'.

The Ulez scheme, set to expand into Greater London this summer, charges older and more polluting cars that enter it. LTNs prevent cars from driving down through roads, pushing them on to main roads instead.

Both schemes have been criticised by local business owners for reducing trade, with some stating it was the reason behind their closure.

When asked by the News Agents podcast last night if such schemes were having a detrimental impact on business, Mr Norman said they had the opposite effect.

He said: 'The studies that we have done in London show that where you have got areas that are more walkable, more cyclable, you have a 40 per cent increase in footfall in shops and on trade.

'There are streets now which previously had empty retail units that are now part of those Low Traffic Neighbourhoods that for the first time in living memory haven't had an empty retail outlet.'

Mr Norman, who became London's first cycling and walking commissioner in 2016, claimed the reason for this rise was because people are less likely to stop in coffee shops or independent businesses when driving.

However, if they are cycling or walking, they are more likely to pop into such shops as they do not have to spend time finding somewhere to park.

When asked by former BBC veterans Jon Sopel and Emily Maitlis whether the Mayor and his team had reached a 'tipping point' of being perceived as an 'anti-car' authority because of the backlash over the Ulez.

Mr Norman, who was previously director of global partnerships at Nike, declared the Ulez was not 'an anti-car agenda'.

He added: 'In London we have designed our city around the car for decades, and lo and behold what we have got is car journeys that result in the congestion, that result in 4,000 people dying prematurely just because of their air they breathe, that result in 3,000 being hit or seriously injured or killed every year on the street.

'We need to change that because where that happens, it makes the city successful because people want to live in places where people want their kids [to] walk to school, cycle to school, cycle to the shops.

'It is not saying people shouldn't use their cars, we need fewer cars on our streets, everywhere around the world is saying that. And the cars that we need should be cleaner.'

Mr Khan has come under increasing pressure to scrap plans to expand the Ulez on August 29.

Last month, he said 'anti-vaxxers, Covid deniers, conspiracy theorists and Nazis' had joined 'decent Tories' in opposing extending the Ulez across the capital.

At a People's Question Time in Ealing, he said: 'Let's be frank. Some of those outside are part of the far-Right. Some are Covid deniers. Some are vaccine-deniers. And some are Tories.'

This led to outcries from angry members of the audience who said: 'We are not the far-Right – normal people are not the far-Right.'

Conservative Party chairman Greg Hands said the comments were reason enough for him to be voted out at the next election.

He said: 'These are awful comments from the London Mayor, smearing anti-Ulez voices like this. I am not surprised the audience in Ealing pushed back. We need to vote Mayor Khan out next May.'

The comments came amid concerns that LTN schemes in the capital had resulted in 240 ambulances being delayed from reaching potentially life-threatening callouts since 2020.

Howard Cox, founder of the FairFuel UK campaign, said: 'Millions will be open mouthed at so many local councils' apparently cavalier attitudes towards human life for the sake of a pointless woke and green idealism.

'It's time our myopic central Government terminated the LTN experiment, ripped up these urban road blockades and allowed our emergency services to do their jobs without hold-ups.

'These costly and senseless road obstacles are spreading right across the UK too, so these figures are likely just the tip of the iceberg.'

And it is not just the capital that is seeing pushback to the 'anti-car' measures.

Since LTNs have been introduced in Oxford and Rochdale, a number of violent incidences have been reported, including setting fire to the bollards just hours after being installed in some instances.

Many local authorities, however, have praised LTNs as a success story in tackling congestion and pollution, with 300 already set up or planned nationwide.

The schemes include pop-up cycle lanes, wider pavements and closing streets to cars while policing the new rules with warning signs, CCTV cameras and fines for drivers breaking them.