SAN FRANCISCO, April 8 ― The next version of ChatGPT, expected to land by the end of the year, could take artificial intelligence to a new level, with a tool that comes closer than ever to human intellectual capabilities.

While ChatGPT 4 is busy making headlines, OpenAI is already working on the next steps for its conversational AI. And the aim could be to rival human intelligence!

On social networks, several developers and journalists have been mentioning the possible appearance, by the end of the year, of a new version of ChatGPT that could achieve artificial general intelligence (AGI). This would be a real revolution since, for the very first time, an algorithm could perform in a way indistinguishable from human intelligence.

The big difference between artificial general intelligence and machine learning as we know it today lies in the ability to understand and analyze a question or a task, in the same way a human could. As such, AGI describes systems capable of performing a task with a cognitive approach similar to that of a human being. Potentially, this type of intelligence could even one day display consciousness or even feelings. Still, it is important to remember that, for the moment, no such form of artificial intelligence exists.

The rumour comes at a time when ChatGPT is in the eye of the storm. Around the world, authorities are looking into whether the AI chatbot respects privacy and personal data protection, and ChatGPT has already been banned in Italy. At the same time, many experts in artificial intelligence are sounding the alarm about the development of this new technology, the impact of which is still difficult to measure. There is no doubt that by developing AGI, OpenAI could potentially cross certain boundaries, such as generating perfectly “credible” fake news.

If it were to be successfully developed, this form of AGI could potentially be on a par with the capacities of the human brain. The next step then would be to develop artificial superintelligence, with powers far superior to those of humans! ― ETX Studio