Over the last few years smart home technology’s popularity has risen to unprecedented levels with as many as 60.4 million households in the US actively using smart home devices in 2023.

Smart home solutions have a range of benefits from increased security to convenience and energy efficiency, making life easier and cost-efficient.

In our article, we will walk you through the top five benefits of smart home technology for you and your family.

With energy prices continuing to rise, the importance of creating an energy-efficient home has become a top priority for many people.

For example, smart thermostats enable you to control the temperature of your home remotely and create handy automation. You can control every room individually (tackling the constant fight over the temperature controls in your family) and ensure that your home is not heated when you’re not around.

These settings can also be easily adjusted on the go from your phone, and smart thermostats can integrate with cameras and motion sensors to lower the temperature when your house is vacant. In fact, integrating a smart thermostat in your house can cut your energy usage by up to 31%.

The use of smart meters and smart plugs can also make it easier to monitor and keep an eye on your consumption. Smart devices, such as smart fridges, allow you to scan their shelves without having to open the door.

Similarly, a programmable washing machine, which can also help you to conserve energy, is just another example of a high-tech appliance that may assist you in reducing your energy usage.

Smart home technology can improve the security of your home with real-time updates at your fingertips. Security cameras and motion sensors can notify you of any activities in or around your house to give you peace of mind wherever you are.

Likewise, smart locks give personalized access options for your family, allowing you to give individual access codes to your children or even to babysitters or cleaners that only work during certain parts of the day.

You can even install personal delivery lockers at your front door to keep your deliveries safe and secure. This allows you to receive packages even when you’re not at home, providing you with peace of mind and eliminating the risk of theft or damage to your items.

Energy efficiency and security are not the only features of smart home technology – over 73% of buyers say that convenience is one of the main reasons why they purchase smart home solutions!

In case you have youngsters in your house, you can receive alerts when they get home from school and even manage their screen time automatically by shutting down TVs, computers, or gaming devices (although a few warnings might be handy so you don’t upset your teenagers too much!).

By automating bedtime and morning routines with features such as bedtime stories, automatic blinds, and night lights, you can seamlessly fit them around your family’s schedule.

You will be glad to hear that you can simplify some of your household chores by automating them with smart robot cleaners that can vacuum and mop your floors, or a smart yard system that can automate your sprinkler needs, making your life easier and more convenient. You can even use motion sensors to activate your holiday decorations!

For the chores that we can’t automate (yet), you can schedule reminders, so you don’t get in trouble for skipping garbage duty!

Smart home solutions can also help to make houses more accessible for the elderly and disabled people. Controlling your home through voice commands can help you stay more connected and enable you to speak with visitors from the comfort of your sofa using smart doorbells. You can also automate routines to switch on lights or start household chores.

A wide range of options is also available for people with hearing impairment. For example, you can install smart bulbs to turn red when a smoke alarm is triggered or have visual notifications displayed when the doorbell rings.

Smart home solutions can also integrate with personal emergency response systems using real-time sensor data to recognize unusual activities such as night-time slips or falls.

Increase the Value of Your Property

Utilizing smart home technology in your home can also raise the value of your house as potential home buyers are increasingly seeking smart-equipped properties when looking for their next home.

Smart thermostats, smart smoke alarms, carbon monoxide detectors, lighting, and smart locks are at the top of the list when it comes to desirable features, with home buyers willing to pay 3-5% more for a property with the right smart home amenities.

By integrating smart technology into your home, you can unlock several benefits that will enhance your daily life. With its ability to improve efficiency and save time, investing in smart technology is a wise decision that will positively impact your life in the long run.

Geeks on Site can help you to identify the right smart home solutions to suit your needs and help you make the most of your new, automated home!