Twitter head Elon Musk on Tuesday attempted to reassure wary advertisers by hyping up the site's newly introduced content moderation policy against hateful material.

Speaking at a meeting in Florida, the controversial billionaire outlined new rules, first announced Monday, to limit the reach of tweets that do not conform to the platform's guidelines.

"If somebody has something hateful to say, it doesn't mean he should have a microphone," the self-described free-speech absolutist told gathered journalists.

"He still should be able to say it, but it needs to be not them pushing it on people," he added.

Under the new policy, unveiled in a blog post titled "Freedom of Speech, Not Reach," Twitter will soon begin tagging posts whose visibility has been limited.

The labels will "bring a new level of transparency to enforcement actions," the blog post said.

"Tweets with these labels will be made less discoverable on the platform. Additionally, we will not place ads adjacent to content that we label."

Since purchasing the so-called bird app in a rollercoaster $44 billion deal last year, Musk has sharply reined in content moderation on the platform, allowing the return of many users who had been banned for posting tweets that incite hate or spread misinformation.

At the same time, he also reduced the company's workforce from more than 7,500 to fewer than 2,000 employees.

Last week, US public radio NPR said it was quitting Twitter after the site labeled the highly respected news outlet's account as "state-affiliated media," branding it the same way as media in authoritarian countries such as Russia or China.

The tag was later amended to read "government-funded media," which was also applied to Britain's BBC.

Following the row, Canada's CBC/Radio-Canada and Swedish public radio Sveriges Radio (SR) also quit the social network.

The drama came against the backdrop of the rollout of yet another contentious new policy, as Twitter has said that starting April 20, it will only grant its famous blue checkmark to accounts that pay for its Twitter Blue service.

According to analyst Jasmine Enberg at market research firm Insider Intelligence, Twitter's revenue is set to drop 28 percent this year, because "advertisers don't trust Musk."

But for Musk, the ability to tinker with Twitter's protocol might be worth the financial risk of spooking advertisers.

"It's totally cool to say that you want to have your advertisement appear in certain places in Twitter and not in other places," Musk said Tuesday.

"But it's not cool to try to say what you can do or not do. And if that means Twitter loses hundreds of thousands of dollars, we'll lose it," he said.

'Stamp of approval': Twitter's Musk amplifies misinformation

Washington (AFP) April 19, 2023 -  Elon Musk promised to make Twitter the "most accurate source of information about the world," but he has repeatedly used his own account to amplify false claims from some of the most notorious disinformers on the internet, according to an AFP analysis of his online activity.

The posts show Musk drawing attention to misinformation about everything from the war in Ukraine to the attack on US Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi's husband. Last week, the billionaire boosted a tweet that wrongly suggested doctors misdiagnosed flu cases as Covid-19 deaths.

"One of the greatest mysteries of Covid-19: Where did the flu go in 2020 and 2021?" an account called "KanekoaTheGreat" said, to which Musk replied: "Good question."

It was one of at least 40 times the billionaire replied to the profile, which has promoted the QAnon conspiracy theory, since purchasing Twitter for $44 billion nearly six months ago. He has only replied to a handful of accounts more in that time.

Using data from PolitiTweet, a website that tracked public figures' posts until Twitter cut off its access, AFP reviewed thousands of replies Musk published between late October and March.

He shared a fabricated CNN segment, called a made-up quote "wise words" and falsely claimed police escorted a rioter through the US Capitol on January 6, 2021. He amplified a post blaming mass shootings on LGBTQ individuals and endorsed a fake casualty count from Ukraine.

Musk has also downplayed Covid-19 and promoted spurious claims about vaccines causing blood clots, miscarriages and heart problems.

"We are running out of 'conspiracies' that turned out to be true!" the Twitter owner said in March, replying to a tweet that listed Covid-19 and vaccine safety among the "biggest media lies."

Days later, he tweeted that the "best way to fight misinformation is to respond with accurate information."

Experts say Musk's activity is concerning -- and not just because of his online influence.

"Musk has almost 135 million Twitter followers and forced his engineers to increase the reach of his tweets, so we should worry when he spreads misinformation," Brendan Nyhan, a Dartmouth College professor who studies misperceptions in politics, told AFP.

"I'm most worried, though, about what these tweets reveal about the judgment of the person who determines the policies of a major social media platform."

Researchers have tied Twitter's recent policy changes -- including Musk's reinstatement of suspended accounts and its overhaul of verification practices -- to spikes in misinformation.

NewsGuard, a company that assesses websites' credibility, found accounts paying for Twitter's subscription service are inundating the site with false claims.

Musk is driving attention to some of these accounts.

"Got the Elon Musk stamp of approval," said "KanekoaTheGreat" on Telegram after one such reply.

A January study from the Institute for Strategic Dialogue, a London-based think tank, recorded a "staggering" increase in Musk's interactions with right-wing accounts since acquiring Twitter, including several profiles other research identified as spreaders of US election misinformation.

Musk has repeatedly amplified posts from sources such as the pro-Donald Trump page "Catturd," the anti-LGBTQ account "Libs of TikTok" and the conspiratorial website ZeroHedge.

Ian Miles Cheong, a far-right blogger, has received at least 60 replies from Musk -- topping all but a few other profiles, according to AFP's analysis. In one instance, Musk amplified a tweet blaming Joe Biden for an immigration program that started under Trump.

"Musk is elevating some of the worst voices on Twitter," Nyhan told AFP. "These interactions are likely to increase the reach and prominence of the accounts."

In some cases, the Twitter boss has helped mainstream false narratives.

After an intruder broke into Pelosi's California residence and struck the lawmaker's husband with a hammer in October, Musk tweeted a link to an article claiming he was drunk and quarreling with a male prostitute. #Pelosigaylover trended on Twitter.

Court filings and footage of the incident disproved the claims, which stemmed from a site that had previously published misinformation. But the damage was done.

"It's really sad for the country that people of that high visibility would separate themselves from the facts and the truth in such a blatant way," Nancy Pelosi said at the time. "It is traumatizing to those affected by it. They don't care about that, obviously."

Twitter responded to AFP's requests for comment with the poop emoji, an auto-reply Musk launched in March.

When the iconic US diaper company Huggies was swamped with false pedophilia allegations last month, the conspiracy was traced to a once-banned influencer reinstated to Twitter by Elon Musk.

The Tesla tycoon bitterly denies that misinformation has surged since his turbulent $44 billion acquisition of the messaging platform, but experts say content moderation has been gutted after mass layoffs, while a paid verification system has served to boost conspiracy theorists.

Adding to the turmoil, the s ...  read more

Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.

Humans need Earth-like ecosystem for deep-space living

Russia will use International Space Station 'until 2028'

Orion stretches its wings ahead of first crewed Artemis mission

Practice makes perfect

SpaceX Cargo Dragon undocks from ISS, heads back to Earth

China's 3D printed afterburning liquid rocket engine tested during recent mission

Musk's Twitter marks BBC, NPR as 'government funded' but not Tesla or SpaceX

Purdue offering new online Hypersonics Graduate Certificate

Slip and Pivot: Sol 3797

NASA unveils 'Mars' habitat for year-long experiments on Earth

Curiosity software upgrade complete: Sol 3796

Scoping out the next sampling stop for Perseverance

China's inland space launch site advances commercial services

China's Shenzhou XV astronauts complete 3rd spacewalk

China's Shenzhou-15 astronauts to return in June

China's space technology institute sees launches of 400 spacecraft

Taiwan seeks satellite solutions after undersea cables cut

Rocket Lab to launch NASA's cyclone-tracking satellite constellation from New Zealand

Safran to provide GNSS simulation solutions for Xona's LEO constellation

Deloitte announces formal space practice for rapidly growing space industry

NASA satellite's elusive green lasers spotted at work

Fungi makes meal of hard-to-recycle plastic: new study

Data can now be processed at the speed of light

Google selects SpaceChain into its Startups Program

Do Earth-like exoplanets have magnetic fields

New paper investigates exoplanet climates

JWST confirms giant planet atmospheres vary widely

Planet hunting and the origins of life

Europe's Jupiter probe launched

Europe's JUICE mission blasts off towards Jupiter's icy moons

Spotlight on Ganymede, Juice's primary target

Search for alien life extends to Jupiter's icy moons

The content herein, unless otherwise known to be public domain, are Copyright 1995-2023 -  Space Media Network . All websites are published in Australia and are solely subject to Australian law and governed by Fair Use principals for news reporting and research purposes. AFP, UPI and IANS news wire stories are copyright Agence France-Presse, United Press International and Indo-Asia News Service. ESA news reports are copyright European Space Agency. All NASA sourced material is public domain. Additional copyrights may apply in whole or part to other bona fide parties. All articles labeled "by Staff Writers" include reports supplied to Space Media Network by industry news wires, PR agencies, corporate press officers and the like. Such articles are individually curated and edited by Space Media Network staff on the basis of the report's information value to our industry and professional readership. Advertising does not imply endorsement, agreement or approval of any opinions, statements or information provided by Space Media Network on any Web page published or hosted by Space Media Network.  Our advertisers use various cookies and the like to deliver the best ad banner available at one time. All network advertising suppliers have GDPR policies (Legitimate Interest) that conform with EU regulations for data collection. By using our websites you consent to cookie based advertising. If you do not agree with this then you must stop using the websites from May 25, 2018.  Privacy Statement . Additional information can be found here at  About Us .