XM does not provide services to residents of the United States of America.

The highlights on the remainder of this week’s agenda could be the Eurozone PMIs, as well as the Japanese and New Zealand CPIs. Technical Analysis – US 100 cash index edges lower; all eyes on the stochasticUS 100 cash index is edging lower today as the bulls appear to be taking a breather following a decent move higher since the March 13 low.USDJPY had been trending lower since its upward sloping channel broke to the downside in early March. However, the pair crossed above its 50-day simple moving average (SMA) following the strong rebound from its March lows, which has temporarily stalled at the upper Boundary of the Ichimoku cloud.NZDUSD got another rejection near the 0.6300 round-level last week, drifting lower to retest the 200-day simple moving average (SMA) around 0.Technical Analysis – EURJPY just below the October 2022 highEURJPY is edging higher following the successful break of the 145.71 level that troubled the bulls in February.GBPUSD bulls’ upside breakout proved short-lived. They managed to record a higher high of 1.2546 on April 14, 2023, but the pair has returned back inside the rectangle that has formed since Nov 21, 2022.Technical Analysis – Gold retreats from recent highs; bulls try to keep it above 2,000Gold is hovering around the March 20, 2023 high of 2,010, having retreated from the recent one-year higher high.The EURUSD rally that started after the September 28, 2022 low of 0.9535 made a new higher high at 1.1075, surpassing the February 2, 2023 high of 1.GBPJPY has been edging higher in the short term, posting a fresh three-month high of 167.50 on Thursday. Moreover, the ascending 50-day simple moving average (SMA) is positively closing the gap with the 200-day SMA, where a potential golden cross may help the pair extend its advance.The US 30 cash index has enjoyed a strong rally since the March 15 low of 31,426, in line with other main stock markets.ETHUSD (Ethereum) has been stuck in an uptrend since the beginning of the year, generating a fresh nine-month high of 1,995 in today’s session following the successful completion of the long-awaited Shanghai upgrade.AUDUSD rebounded off the 0.6625 support level, which is also near the lower boundary of the short-term upward sloping channel.WTI oil futures (May delivery) posted a fresh 15-month low of 64.36 in mid-March after breaking below their long-lasting rectangle pattern.Technical Analysis – USDJPY gets closer to the 134.50 barrierUSDJPY has been in a recovery mode recently, since it hit the upside support line drawn from the low of January 17.EURGBP has been surging in the four-hour chart after encountering strong support at the April low of 0.8728.Gold is currently under pressure but is still above the 2,000 psychological mark and the short-term simple moving averages (SMAs) in the 4-hour chart.Technical Analysis – JPMorgan Chase range-trading continues; will there be first-mover advantage?JPMorgan’s (JPM) recovery since the October 12, 2022 low of 101.54 was interrupted by the March banking shenanigans.NZDUSD had been steadily gaining ground after finding its feet at the 2023 low of 0.6083 in early March. However, the recovery proved to be short-lived and the price reversed lower, diving beneath its 50-day simple moving average (SMA), while the focus has now shifted towards the 200-day SMA.Technical Analysis – USDCAD posts bearish cross within SMAs; next support at 1.3400USDCAD is plunging towards the long-term uptrend line that may act as a turning point for traders. The 20- and the 50-day simple moving averages (SMAs) are ready to post a bearish crossover, confirming the recent bearish movement from the 1.Technical Analysis – Has Citigroup’s rally run out of gas?Citigroup’s rally appears to have hit a wall at the 47.00 area, with the stock currently hovering below the January 16, 2015 low of 46.Disclaimer: The XM Group entities provide execution-only service and access to our Online Trading Facility, permitting a person to view and/or use the content available on or via the website, is not intended to change or expand on this, nor does it change or expand on this. Such access and use are always subject to: (i) Terms and Conditions; (ii) Risk Warnings; and (iii) Full Disclaimer. Such content is therefore provided as no more than general information. Particularly, please be aware that the contents of our Online Trading Facility are neither a solicitation, nor an offer to enter any transactions on the financial markets. Trading on any financial market involves a significant level of risk to your capital.All material published on our Online Trading Facility is intended for educational/informational purposes only, and does not contain – nor should it be considered as containing – financial, investment tax or trading advice and recommendations; or a record of our trading prices; or an offer of, or solicitation for, a transaction in any financial instruments; or unsolicited financial promotions to you.Any third-party content, as well as content prepared by XM, such as: opinions, news, research, analyses, prices and other information or links to third-party sites contained on this website are provided on an “as-is” basis, as general market commentary, and do not constitute investment advice. To the extent that any content is construed as investment research, you must note and accept that the content was not intended to and has not been prepared in accordance with legal requirements designed to promote the independence of investment research and as such, it would be considered as marketing communication under the relevant laws and regulations. Please ensure that you have read and understood our Notification on Non-Independent Investment. Research and Risk Warning concerning the foregoing information, which can be accessed here.

We use cookies to ensure the best possible browsing experience. Some are needed for essential features like login sessions, while others help us provide you with content and marketing more closely tailored to your needs. Accepting all cookies enables us to enhance your experience further. Please note, some of these may be third-party cookies. You can modify your cookie preferences by clicking the button below.                    For more information, please see our Cookie Policy.

Cookies are small data files. When you visit a website, the website sends the cookie to your computer. Your computer stores it in a file located inside your web browser.

Cookies do not transfer viruses or malware to your computer. Because the data in a cookie does not change when it travels back and forth, it has no way to affect how your computer runs, but they act more like logs (i.e. they record user activity and remember stateful information) and they get updated every time you visit a website.

We may obtain information about you by accessing cookies, sent by our website. Different types of cookies keep track of different activities. For example, session cookies are used only when a person is actively navigating a website. Once you leave the website, the session cookie disappears.

Why are cookies useful?

We use functional cookies to analyse how visitors use our website, as well as track and improve our website’s performance and function. This allows us to provide a high-quality customer experience by quickly identifying and fixing any issues that may arise. For example, we might use cookies to keep track of which website pages are most popular and which method of linking between website pages is most effective. The latter also helps us to track if you were referred to us by another website and improve our future advertising campaigns.

Another use of cookies is to store your log in sessions, meaning that when you log in to the Members Area to deposit funds, a "session cookie" is set so that the website remembers that you have already logged in. If the website did not set this cookie, you will be asked for your login and password on each new page as you progress through the funding process.

In addition, functional cookies, for example, are used to allow us to remember your preferences and identify you as a user, ensure your information is secure and operate more reliably and efficiently. For example, cookies save you the trouble of typing in your username every time you access our trading platform, and recall your preferences, such as which language you wish to see when you log in.

Here is an overview of some of the functions our cookies provide us with:

Verifying your identity and detecting the country you are currently visiting from

Tracking which site the user was referred from

Allowing third parties to customize content accordingly

This website uses Google Analytics, a web analytics service provided by Google, Inc. ("Google"). Google Analytics uses analytical cookies placed on your computer, to help the website analyze a user's use of the website. The information generated by the cookie about your use of the website (including your IP address) may be transmitted to and stored by Google on their servers. Google may use this information to evaluate your use of the website, to compile reports on website activity and to provide other services related to website activity and internet usage. Google may also transfer this information to third parties, where required to do so by law, or where such third parties process the information on behalf of Google. Google will not associate your IP address with any other data held. By using this website, you give your consent to Google to process data about you in the manner and for the purposes set out above.

Please select which types of cookies you want to be stored on your device.

Functional cookies

These cookies are essential for the running of our website. Without these cookies our websites would not function properly. These are saved temporarily as login information and expire once the browser is closed.

Analytical cookies

The information provided by analytical cookies allows us to analyse patterns of visitor behaviour and we use that information to enhance the overall experience or identify areas of the website which may require maintenance. The information is anonymous (i.e. it cannot be used to identify you and does not contain personal information such as your name and email address) and it is only used for statistical purposes. Behavioral cookies are similar to analytical and remember that you have visited a website and use that information to provide you with content which is tailored to your interests.

Promotional cookies

These cookies are used to track visitors across websites. The intention is to display ads that are relevant and engaging for the individual user and thereby more valuable for publishers and third party advertisers.

Preferences cookies

Preference cookies enable a website to remember information that changes the way the website behaves or looks, like your preferred language or the region that you are in.

We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website. Read more or change your cookie settings.

Risk Warning: Your capital is at risk. Leveraged products may not be suitable for everyone. Please consider our Risk Disclosure.

By clicking "Enter", you agree to the personal data you provide via live chat to be processed by Trading Point of Financial Instruments Ltd, as per the Company's Privacy Policy, to receive assistance from our Customer Experience Department.

If you do not give your consent to the above, you may alternatively contact us via the Members Area or at support@xm.com.

All incoming and outgoing telephone conversations, as well as other electronic communications (including chat messages or emails) between you and us will be recorded and stored for quality monitoring, training and regulatory purposes.

Please enter your contact information. If you already have an XM account, please state your account ID so that our support team can provide you with the best service possible.

The MT4/MT5 ID and email address provided do not correspond to an XM real trading account.

The MT4/MT5 ID and email address provided do not correspond to an XM real trading account.