The Cherry Cricket is getting ready to put the final touches on its third location, scheduled to open late Spring at 819 W Littleton Blvd, Littleton CO 80120. The Cherry Cricket has been serving up burgers and beer in Cherry Creek since 1945 and in the Ballpark neighborhood since 2018.

The Cherry Cricket has named Samantha Taxin general manager and Eder Martinez head chef of its new Littleton location. Both are being promoted from their current Cricket positions. They will be hiring 160 additional staff members to join their team to create burgers and neighborhood experiences that guests of The Cherry Cricket expect.

“We are thrilled to have Samantha lead the Cherry Cricket Littleton team. She started at the Cricket as a hostess in 2005 and worked her way up to general manager,” said Melissa Brooks, Cherry Cricket’s vice president of human resources in a statement. “With Samantha’s leadership and enthusiasm, we hope that each of the 160 team members we hire will have the success and longevity that she has had. The excitement is palpable; we had people asking to apply over a year ago!”

The Cherry Cricket renovated a storied Littleton restaurant location. It was previously home to The Crestwood built in 1967.

Once complete, the 6,659 square foot restaurant will offer about 400 seats, with over 100 outdoor seats in the Burger Garden, as well as many elements that will feel familiar to Cricket fans, including its signature marquee sign, a fish tank and nostalgic design features.

“As a restaurant that got its start 78 years ago, it’s important to us at the Cherry Cricket that we pay homage to the history of the community,” said Alex Bunn, vice president of brand strategy and growth for the Cherry Cricket. “We thought displaying photos of good times at The Crestwood would be a fun way to honor the restaurant’s legacy while celebrating a new chapter for this very special location. We hope to continue the tradition of hosting great memories with family and friends. We can’t wait to see the photos that come in.”

Keep up with  What Now Denver’s  restaurant, retail, and real estate scoop by  subscribing to our newsletter  ,  liking us on Facebook  , and  following us on Twitter  . Opening a restaurant?  Browse our Preferred Partners  .