Announced only hours before this posting, the Call of Duty League has revealed the location for the much anticipated season championship location. Eight teams who qualify will be headed to the Thomas & Mack Center UNLV in Las Vegas to compete in what’s sure to be a standout tournament. As of the time of this writing the home team , Las Vegas Legion, are tied for the eighth and final spot for Champs. Can they make a run during this weekend’s Major tournament and the final fifth one? It’ll be exciting to watch, so lock in your Champs tickets now!

Announced only hours before this posting, the Call of Duty League has revealed the location for the much anticipated season championship location. Eight teams who qualify will be headed to the Thomas & Mack Center UNLV in Las Vegas to compete in what’s sure to be a standout tournament. As of the time of this writing the home team , Las Vegas Legion, are tied for the eighth and final spot for Champs. Can they make a run during this weekend’s Major tournament and the final fifth one? It’ll be exciting to watch, so lock in your Champs tickets now!

The 2023 Call of Duty League Championship weekend is going down June 15–18 live and in person in Las Vegas, NV at the Thomas & Mack Center UNLV.

Everything is on the line: the money, the glory, and the Championship trophy. With a season full of storylines, roster changes and epic battles, you can’t afford to miss this bigger than life weekend with even larger prizing!

The 2023 Champs presale starts Wednesday, Apr 19 at 10a.m. PT and it’s the only time you’ll get a $5 discount on tickets.

To access the 2023 Champs presale just sign up for the League email newsletter and you’ll get sent the presale ticketing link at 10a.m. PT on Apr 19.

If you miss the presale, you can still get tickets at regular price when they go on-sale to the general public on Friday, April 21 at 10a.m. PT.

As we get closer to Champs 2023, keep an eye out for announcements about which creators, partners, and teams will be on the ground at the Thomas & Mack Center UNLV for the 2023 Championship weekend with special activations, experiences, and offers.

Want to host a Champs watch party of your own on YouTube or Twitch? Watch Party sign-ups will be launching soon for Championship Weekend! Keep a lookout on the Call of Duty League costreaming webpage for updates.