— The Cardinal Gibbons Crusader defeated their conference opponent the Enloe Eagles 4-0 on Thursday, April 13. Coming into the matchup the Crusaders sat in first place in the Cap Six Conference with the Eagles trailing behind.

The Crusaders' scored two goals in the first half. The Lady Crusaders' big night started with a goal by Yvette Obediente in the 33rd minute. The goal sequence began with a free kick from 45 yards out by Hailey Juhasz. The ball landed between Obediente and Nya Folk, Obediente took advantage of Eagles goalkeeper Whitney Hall out of position and kicked the ball in the back of the net to give the Crusaders a quick 1-0 lead over the Eagles.

The second goal in the first half came from Ava Loverso in the 22nd minute. The Crusaders showcased efficient passing skills to set up Loverso's goal. Loverso​​​​​​​​​​​​​​ received the ball on the Crusader's side near the corner kick flag, she dribbled quickly back inside making the Eagle defender turnaround and launched the ball in the right back corner of the net extending the Crusaders' lead to 2-0.

Despite the four goals scored by the Crusaders', goalkeeper Whitney Hall showcased a tough outing against the Crusaders ending their night with 11 saves.

Goalkeeper Rhian Lawrence and the Crusaders' defenders did a great job of limiting the Eagles from getting easy shot attempts. Lawrence ended their night with three saves.

The final two goals for the Crusaders came in within a minute from each in the second half. The first goal in the new period came in the 38th minute from Allison Fontaine. Fontaine came in hot down the field catching a lead pass, with an Eagle defender coming to prevent her from an open look Fontaine kicked the ball into the left corner of the goal giving the Crusaders a 3-0 lead.

The final Crusaders' goal occurred in the 37th minute from Lily Pryzwansky. Pryzwansky showcased her speed beating the Eagle defender to the ball gaining a slight edge in front of her and kicking the ball in the back bottom left corner of the goal sealing the 4-0 victory of the Eagles.

Coming up next, the Crusaders will welcome the Leesville Road Pride on Monday, April 17. The Eagles will travel to Athens Drive on Monday, April 17.