Skip to main content

What are you looking for?

Type of Appointment: JPO, One year with possibility of extension

Estimated Start Date: As soon as possible

Established in 1951, IOM is a Related Organization of the United Nations, and as the leading UN agency in the field of migration, works closely with governmental, intergovernmental and non-governmental partners. IOM is dedicated to promoting humane and orderly migration for the benefit of all. It does so by providing services and advice to governments and migrants.

Brazil is a Member State of IOM since 2004, and currently the Organization is present in 13 cities covering the five main regions of Brazil, with a total of 170 staff.

IOM Brazil works under the following thematic areas: (a) migration policy and research; (b) labour mobility and human development; (c) resettlement and humanitarian emergency; (d) migrant protection and assistance; (e) immigration and border management; and (f) migration health.

Under the overall supervision of the Chief of Mission and direct supervision of the Senior Emergency Coordinator, and in coordination with the Programme Support Unit, the Monitoring & Evaluation and Reporting Officer will contribute to the Monitoring & Evaluation (M&E) and donor reporting activities of IOM Brazil Country Office (CO) and will support the quality reporting on the current programme portfolio of Boa Vista Sub-Office.

Monitor and coordinate the monitoring and reporting activities in Northern Brazil to comprehensive and detailed coverage of projects throughout all stages of the implementation and to provide relevant information for performance management and evaluation of the activities of the different programmes.

Draft monthly, quarterly and annual M&E reports, Post Distribution Monitoring (PDM) reports/products and other Donor required documentation reports.

Review, monitor and propose adjustments for the existing monitoring mechanisms andreporting documents, including but not limited to project-level monitoring and evaluation (M&E) plans, data collection tools, and final evaluation reports.

Contribute to the development and test and rollout of new data collection tools for project specific M&E data, analysis and dissemination: baseline surveys, rapid monitoring, post-distribution monitoring, evaluations and other M&E data collection exercises.

Provide technical support to strengthen the community feedback mechanism (CFM) and accountability to affected population (AAP) and share analysis on the effectiveness of CFM.

Coordinate with the Project Coordinators and with the Programme Support Unit for the timely preparation, review, and submission of interim and/or final narrative reports to donors. Check that the reports are in line with specific donor requirements, are clearly reflecting the results achieved and the submitted copies are shared with relevant units.

Contribute to the development of new projects by supporting the development of concept notes and drafting of project proposals.

Perform such other duties as may be assigned.

As an integral part of the IOM assignment the Junior Professional Officer will:

Gain understanding of a UN Organization, its activities and processes.

Gain experience on various aspects of the migration policy and management in Brazil.

Improvement of drafting and reporting skills (reports, concept notes and project proposals)• Gain experience in working with governmental, non-governmental and United Nations institutions.

Master’s degree in Law, Social Sciences, International Relations, Development Studies, or a related field from an accredited academic institution with two years of relevant professional experience, or;

University degree in the above fields with four years of relevant professional experience.

Proven experience with collection and systematization of information, and report writing;

Experience implementing Monitoring and Evaluation activities for a variety of projects;

Previous experience working with UN agencies, Governmental entities, Civil Society Organizations and other stakeholders;

Knowledge or experience in the field of migration is an asset; and,

Experience in the use of monitoring tools.

Excellent report writing and analytical skills, proficiency in written and spoken English, basic knowledge of statistical software and web-based data collection applications;

Strong interpersonal skills and ability to work with diverse culture and environment;

Excellent communication, negotiation, and organizational skills; ability to prepare clear and concise reports; and,

Ability to pay close attention to details and proven ability work with limited supervision.

For this position, fluency in English and Spanish is required (oral and written). Working knowledge of Portuguese is an advantage.

Please note that this position is only open to nationals of the United States of America.

Accredited Universities are the ones listed in the UNESCO World Higher Education Database (https://whed.net/home.php).

The successful candidate is expected to demonstrate the following values and competencies:

Inclusion and respect for diversity: respects and promotes individual and cultural differences; encourages diversity and inclusion wherever possible.

Integrity and transparency: maintains high ethical standards and acts in a manner consistent with organizational principles/rules and standards of conduct.

Professionalism: demonstrates ability to work in a composed, competent and committed manner and exercises careful judgment in meeting day-to-day challenges.

Teamwork: develops and promotes effective collaboration within and across units to achieve shared goals and optimize results.

Delivering results: produces and delivers quality results in a service-oriented and timely manner; is action oriented and committed to achieving agreed outcomes.

Managing and sharing knowledge: continuously seeks to learn, share knowledge and innovate.

Accountability: takes ownership for achieving the Organization’s priorities and assumes responsibility for own action and delegated work.

Communication: encourages and contributes to clear and open communication; explains complex matters in an informative, inspiring and motivational way.

IOM’s competency framework can be found at this link.

Competencies will be assessed during a competency-based interview.

Internationally recruited professional staff are required to be mobile. For this staff category, candidates who are nationals of the duty station’s country cannot be considered eligible.

The appointment is subject to funding confirmation.

Appointment will be subject to certification that the candidate is medically fit for appointment or visa requirements and security clearances. Subject to certain exemptions, vaccination against COVID-19 will in principle be required for individuals hired on or after 15 November 2021. This will be verified as part of the medical clearance process.

Vacancies close at 23:59 local time Geneva, Switzerland on the respective closing date. No late applications will be accepted.

Interested candidates are invited to submit their applications HERE via PRISM, IOM e-Recruitment system, by 27 April 2023 at the latest, referring to this advertisement.

IOM only accepts duly completed applications submitted through the IOM e-Recruitment system. The online tool also allows candidates to track the status of their application.

Only shortlisted candidates will be contacted.

For further information please refer to: www.iom.int/recruitment

IOM does not charge a fee at any stage of its recruitment process (application, interview, processing, training or other fee). IOM does not request any information related to bank accounts.

Requisition: JPO 2023 01 (P) - JPO - Monitoring & Evaluation and Reporting Officer (for American nationals only) Boa Vista, Brazil (58080736) Released Posting: Posting NC58080737 (58080737) Released

UNHCR Regional Bureau for Asia and Pacific (RBAP): 2022 Cash-Based Interventions in the Region