A new Walking Dead spin-off titled More Tales From the Walking Dead Universe has been announced.

Like a zombie that just keeps coming back to life, the AMC hit tv series The Walking Dead is getting yet another spinoff tv show. The new series is being called More Tales From the Walking Dead Universe, at least for now, shares MovieWeb. The new series will mark the eighth tv show from The Walking Dead franchise since it started back in 2010.

While the release date and the plot of the new series remain unknown, we can look forward to the return of Maggie and Neelan when The Walking Dead: Dead City airs on AMC this coming June. This new series will travel from the southern United States to New York to show how the walkers have taken over Manhattan. The mini-series will be comprised of six episodes, and will feature Lauren Cohan as Maggie Greene, Jeffrey Dean Morgan as the infamous Negan, Gaius Charles as Perlie Armstrong, and Željko Ivanek as “The Croat.”

After eleven long seasons that ran from 2010 to 2022, The Walking Dead officially concluded, by the time its first three spinoffs had already begun. These include Fear the Walking Dead, World Beyond, and Tales of the Walking Dead, all of which focused on the post-apocalyptic world that was first created in comic book series written by Robert Kirkman. With 193 issues in the comic book series, it gives AMC plenty of fodder to create even more content that viewers can’t get enough of.

In a short-lived spinoff show, The Walking Dead: World Beyond shared what it was like for a young generation to grow up during the zombie apocalypse, much like Ellie in HBO’s The Last of Us. World Beyond only ran for two seasons, airing 20 episodes from October 2020 to October 2021 before being canceled. It seems it couldn’t stack up to the highly successful first spinoff Fear the Walking Dead.

Fans of The Walking Dead will be excited to see Andrew Lincoln reprise his role as the series’ main character Rick Grimes when he returns for the spinoff show Rick and Michonne. The six-episode series will share what happened to Rick after he was last seen leaving via a helicopter in the season finale of the original The Walking Dead tv show. The fate of Rick and Michonne (played by Danai Gurira) was meant to be shared in a feature film but has since been changed to a limited series that will air sometime in 2024.

In yet another spinoff series, fans will get to see Norman Reedus reprise his role as the badass redneck Daryl in his very own show entitled The Walking Dead: Daryl Dixon. While Dead City will venture into New York, Daryl is supposedly heading internationally to go kill zombies in France. The limited series is also set to feature six episodes with a cast that includes Gilbert Glenn Brown as Jones, Clémence Poésy as Isabelle, and Adam Nagaitis as Quinn.

At this rate, unless someone takes out all the walkers—and makes sure to double-tap them—then we may just see The Walking Dead spinoffs go on forever.