Target Components has been appointed Official Distributor by German PC components manufacturer, be quiet!.

The Yorkshire-based, employee-owned distributor now has access to be quiet!’s entire portfolio of power supplies, PC cases, water and air coolers, and fans for desktop PCs. The range is also available in Target’s unique custom PC configurator, The Custom PC Builder, as well as it’s end-user-facing reseller version, The In-Store PC Builder.

be quiet!, currently celebrating more than 20 years in the industry, launched its first product in Glinde (near Hamburg) in 2002. It is now widely-regarded as a premium manufacturer of silent PC components using world-class German engineering, releasing its multi-award-winning FX range of cases, power supplies and coolers to celebrate its anniversary.

The manufacturer’s latest products, the Dark Power 13 80 PLUS Titanium and Pure Power 12 M 80 PLUS Gold modular PSUs were launched at the beginning of 2023 to address the high-end power requirements of next-gen graphics cards with ATX 3.0 compatibility, with an Overlocking Key for power stability in extreme overclocking and a 10-year manufacturer’s warranty.

Martyn Kirby, Target’s Procurement Director, commented “Whether they are system builders, gaming specialists or selling into the public sector where sustainability is so important, be quiet! addresses our customers’ requirements for top-notch quality, reliable components. They are world-renowned for their German design and engineering combined with industry-leading build quality and a broad range of products that not only address next-gen builds but also next-next gen and beyond – buying a power supply you know is good for the next 10 years is incredibly appealing to consumers.”

“We at be quiet! are pleased to welcome Target Computers as a valued partner in the United Kingdom. Target has been a respected mainstay of the British technology industry for a long time now, offering a wealth of purchase options when it comes to components and PC builds, including a custom PC configurator for their partners to let end-users build their dream PC. We look forward to this collaboration to further improve the availability of our products to customers,” says Aaron Licht, CEO of be quiet!.

The be quiet! range is available at Target Components now.