Race-by-race preview and tips for Thursday meeting at Wyong

We’re sorry, this feature is currently unavailable. We’re working to restore it. Please try again later.

Skip to sections navigationSkip to contentSkip to footer

Race-by-race preview and tips for Thursday meeting at Wyong, register or subscribe to save articles for later. Add articles to your saved list and come back to them any time.A battle of tactics to start for the maidens over a mile, and hard to see progressive metro filly 3. Venetian Blue going under off his first-up run when missing by a head as a hot favourite under 60kg in the country. Will likely roll forward from this gate in a race of very little speed, and prove very tough to get past. Only missed a place once in four starts.Dangers: Tough 2. Star Legacy is hard fit, and has run into a place in his last three, beaten under a length at this track a fortnight ago. Keep safe 8. Victory Salute who can improve sharply second-up; while at big odds, expecting an improved run from home tracker 4. Single Shot ridden quieter.How to play it: Venetian Blue to win. Odds and Evens: SplitImproving mare 3. Youthfull is on track to peak third-up getting out over this trip. Was very good late resuming in a deeper metropolitan field before a little flat at Newcastle when settling much closer in the run. Will do little or no work from the draw, and be saved up for one final surge from the 600m. Was scratched from a tough race at Warwick Farm on Wednesday to be saved for this.Dangers: Big watch on talented country mare 1. Mirror Queen if she starts fourth-up, having also accepted for the feature staying race at Tamworth on Friday. Should have won last start when charging home after stepping up sharply to this trip, and right at peak fitness now, although the handicapper hasn’t missed her, rising to 61kg. Home tracker 4. Dreamdeel has fought hard in two runs up to this grade since a provincial CL1 win five weeks ago; while dominant last start maiden winner here 5. Itsagooddeel and at bigger odds hard fit 7. Into The Oblivion are both capable of running into the minor money.How to play it: Youthfull to win. Odds and Evens: OddsAt good odds, like Deep Field three-year-old 7. Turbo Charged resuming for a second prep behind two trials. Fitted for this first-up trip when working home under a hold in her latest trial over 1030m despite being in restricted room for much of the journey. Will drift back with cover, but capable of producing a dominant final 300m burst.Dangers: No doubt improving 1. Choice Legend showed enough when missing narrowly on debut at Newcastle, and likely to go off a short-priced favourite, but wouldn’t be diving into too short a price from a tricky draw. Watch the betting on resuming 4. Who’s In Winny who has trialled okay, and drawn to get a trail just off the speed. Another one up from the city, 6. Agnodice can also progress sharply second-up coming out of a handy maiden formline.How to play it: Turbo Charged each way. Odds and Evens: OddsA few chances in this clearly headed by progressive provincial filly 9. Yamba’s Award who maps to sit closer and break through third-up. Loved the way she powered home here two weeks back, and in-form jockey sticks like glue.Dangers: Metro filly 7. Allasandra looms as the immediate threat back on firmer ground third-up; while 6. Willaidow can also improve back on dryer ground at her fourth start. Included in exotics sparingly raced 2. Gold Something fourth-up; and 5. Supreme Wind second-up.How to play it: Yamba’s Award to win. Odds and Evens: OddsSmall field here augurs well for the talented Godolphin filly 3. Surrenders resuming off two trials. Was competitive in three spaced runs across her first prep, and from this gate in a race of modest depth, she looks primed to strike.Dangers: Big watch on local Pride Of Dubai filly 2. Chilada who makes her debut behind two winning trials, and can run the quinella; while 1. Salaasel improving second-up on firm ground is clear best of the rest.How to play it: Surrenders to win. Odds and Evens: SplitNever much between the main fancies at this level, and early positions will be critical. Trained on the track, tough seven-year-old 2. Oxford Tycoon can strike third-up. Has only been fair to the line in consecutive and tougher metro Midway races, but this is far more to his liking settling closer from a softer draw, and right back in at the weights after the jockey’s 3kg claim.Dangers: Capable mare 4. Miss Fox has hit the line well in consecutive deeper city races, and will appreciate a little more ground, but still has a task under a big weight from this draw. Jumping from the inside, honest 6. All Machiavellian can find a handy trail just off the speed fourth-up; while home tracker 7. Princess Amira pulled off a long-priced betting move here first-up sailing home from mdifield to claim a BM 64. Watch for any money around 1. Five Crowns who has a smart fresh record, and trialled twice.How to play it: Oxford Tycoon to win. Odds and Evens: EvensLikely toughest race of the day, with many chances. Talented four-year-old 1. The Halo has to overcome a tricky draw, but she’s been placed in three of her last four generally against better opposition since bolting in a similar race here back in mid-January. Will need to tuck in fairly early, but the addition of a barrier blanket is a plus, and so is the booking of a 3kg claimer.Dangers: Progressive three-year-old 9. Resistible is another one with more than enough ability if she can overcome an even wider gate. Has beaten all bar the winner from on-speed in two runs back, and winkers come off. Keep safe home tracker 4. Takara Star who draws the inside, and has won her last two in the country by parking on speed and surging clear over the final part. Small gap to the rest headed by 3. Beirut Miss resuming off two improving trials from a wide draw; while 5. Impressive Lass fourth-up; and 10. Estilete back in distance seven weeks between runs; can both add big value into exotic plays.How to play it: The Halo to win. Odds and Evens: OddsWe close the meeting with the boys’ edition, and it’s just as open. Promising three-year-old 9. Skylight Song can take the next step after a smart maiden win here two weeks ago over the same distance. Looked to have something in hand that day, and while this is naturally tougher, he boasts typical Your Song strength at both ends of the race.Dangers: Lightly raced 5. Strombus reloads after the final race at Hawkesbury last week was abandoned. Comes back from a strong finishing effort in deeper metro company, but tends to save his best for wetter tracks. Improving 8. Surfers Royale held his ground into third place, resuming in a deeper race at Hawkesbury, and the winner then came out and scored in a Group 3 at Randwick last Saturday. Tough local 6. Budhwar hasn’t won for a long time, but he can roll forward from the inside barrier and give a decent sight.How to play it: Skylight Song to win. Odds and Evens: Odds

Supplied by Racing NSW

Full form and race replays available at racingnsw.com.au, register or subscribe to save articles for later.