Trusted diamond auction house Bid Global International Auctioneers announces a series of live and online events for buyers in Beverly Hills, Malibu, Santa Monica, and surrounding parts of Los Angeles.

Trusted diamond auction house Bid Global International Auctioneers announces a series of live and online events for buyers in Beverly Hills, Malibu, Santa Monica, and surrounding parts of Los Angeles.

The firm’s recent announcement was accompanied by its latest catalogue, which features 349 recently cut diamonds that have been graded by the Gemological Institute of America (GIA). Stones now offered range from 2-carat to 17-carat in weight, and most popular styles are available, including round cut, oval cut, pear cut, cushion cut, and more.

More details can be found at: https://bidglobal.com/finest-9-carat-pear/

Bid Global states that its upcoming events are ideal for those who are considering bespoke jewelry items, such as wedding and engagement rings, earrings and studs, bracelets, necklaces, and pendants. The auctions are open to both private and commercial buyers, with registration now available via the firm’s website.

Bespoke jewelry is often considered a more expensive option than purchasing off-the-shelf, owing to its one-of-a-kind nature. However, Bid Global explains that purchasing loose diamonds at one of its wholesale auctions can significantly reduce the cost of a custom piece, in some cases being lower than mass-produced items.

The firm states that the stones offered in its latest series of auctions were sourced through exclusive supply arrangements with leading international diamond cutters. As the diamonds have not yet been offered through dealer or wholesale networks, Bid Global states that diamonds can be purchased at prices that are significantly less than retail outlets.

Along with the GIA, Bid Global has each diamond appraised by the Accredited Gemological Institute of New York (AGI). The multi-stage grading process is designed to give additional assurances to buyers, and all stones are supplied complete with corresponding certification, laser inscriptions, and setting.

In operation since 1997, Bid Global International Auctioneers is now recognized for its expertise and experience in the sale of diamonds, jewelry, fine watches, and gemstones. In addition to US cities, the firm offers live and online events in several international locations, including Singapore, Hong Kong, London, and Sydney.

A company representative recently stated: “At Bid Global, we eliminate several steps in the supply chain, and offer loose diamonds that have been sourced directly from specialized diamond cutters. That means our clients get some of the best prices for recently cut diamonds, which are perfect for creating rings, pendants, and bracelets.”

Interested parties can find more information by visiting: https://live.bidglobal.com