CHICAGO, IL - RMK Management Corp., one of the Midwest’s largest market-rate apartment management firms, has been named property manager for Conservancy at Gilberts, a new-construction development that will offer 94 rental townhomes and 90 rental single-family homes in northwest-suburban Gilberts, Ill.

Construction is complete for the community’s first phase, comprising 54 townhomes, which began leasing in January. To date, many of the townhomes in this initial phase have been leased, and the community has welcomed its first move-ins with nine townhomes occupied. Construction is underway on the remaining 40 townhomes.

In addition, pre-leasing has begun for the first phase of 46 single-family rental homes, which is expected to welcome move-ins this June.

“Based on the response we’ve seen to the townhomes and single-family homes at Conservancy at Gilberts, there’s no denying the high demand for new-construction, quality rental housing from families and others seeking more space and bedrooms than what’s available in existing area rentals,” said Anthony Rossi Sr., chairman of Chicago-based RMK Management. “And while there has been a rise in rental townhomes and single-family homes over the last few years, many of those are owned by individual investors who aren’t management professionals. It’s a much different experience for renters when they choose to live in a community like this, where the homes are managed by a long-standing firm like RMK, which is known for its five-star service, award-winning maintenance teams and professionally organized activities so residents can get to know each other.”

Rossi said renters are also drawn to the maintenance-free lifestyle at Conservancy at Gilberts. “Residents can enjoy the peace of mind of knowing we’re taking care of landscaping and snow removal, so they can relax and take full advantage of the amenities in Gilberts and the surrounding area. And once the community is more complete, we’ll begin organizing resident events.”

Conservancy at Gilberts residents can choose from seven rental townhome floor plans: two plans that offer two bedrooms and 2½ baths; two plans that offer three bedrooms and 2½ baths; and three plans that offer four bedrooms and 2½ baths.

Two- and three-bedroom rental townhome designs measure from 1,469 to1,724 square feet with rents ranging from $2,530 to $2,925. These homes include a main level with a front-loaded two-car garage, powder room, coat closet, open-concept kitchen and family room, and private patio. The second level features an owner’s suite with a large bath and walk-in closet, one or two secondary bedrooms, a full hall bath and laundry room with full-size washer/dryer. One of the two-bedroom designs features a loft upstairs, which is ideal as a home office, said Rossi, while one of the three-bedroom plans is an end unit with larger rooms and more windows.

Four-bedroom rental townhome floor plans measure from 2,114 to 2,423 square feet. These residences include a main level with a front-loaded two-car garage, powder room, coat closet and open-concept kitchen, dining area and family room. Both four-bedroom plans feature a flex room at the entry, perfect as a private home office, Rossi said. The second level of these homes has an owner’s suite with a large bath and walk-in closet, three secondary bedrooms, a full hall bath and laundry room with full-size washer/dryer. Some four-bedroom residences have unfinished basements and small front porches.

All rental townhomes have 9-foot first-floor ceilings and are complete with modern, high-end finishes including quartz countertops, stainless steel appliances, kitchen islands or peninsula bars, carpeting in bedrooms and plank-style flooring throughout the main living areas.

A furnished and decorated model townhome, featuring the Campania end-unit floor plan, is available for tours. The model measures 1,724 square feet and features three bedrooms, 2½ baths and a private patio.

Conservancy at Gilberts is a pet-friendly community, allowing cats and dogs, in accordance with the community’s pet policy. Rossi adds that the community’s grounds offer plenty of green space and outdoor areas for walking dogs and enjoying outdoor recreation.

Located in a quiet residential area about 45 miles northwest of downtown Chicago, just east of Interstate 90 and near Route 47 and Interstate 72, Conservancy at Gilberts is near a variety of parks, forest preserves and recreational amenities including golf courses. Residents will be near major retailers such as Walmart, Jewel-Osco and Woodman’s Food Market, as well as a local brewery and café.

Gilberts, in north Kane County, has a population around 8,400. The village hosts a number of community events throughout the year, including Gilberts Community Days carnival event and an annual Fall Bonfire. Residents will be served by Gilberts Elementary School, Hampshire Middle School and Hampshire High School. Conservancy at Gilberts is about seven miles from the Elgin Metra station, which provides service to downtown Chicago and other neighboring suburbs via the Milwaukee District West Service line. Interstate 90 is a short drive from the community, offering easy access to neighboring suburbs, Chicago and Rockford.

About RMK Management: Chicago-based RMK Management Corp. manages over 7,600 apartment homes in the Chicago, Indiana, Wisconsin and Minnesota areas. The company’s portfolio spans a range of apartment types, from high-rise and mid-rise buildings to two- and three-story walk-up apartments, garden apartments and affordable housing. RMK also develops, builds and renovates communities.