Netflix fans will be hit by yet another shake-up next month, with a slew of beloved films and TV shows set to leave the streaming service.

Viewers will have a limited number of days to tune into a list of films before they vanish from Netflix UK on May 1.

Among those are the 2010 awards favourite The Social Network, which told the true story of  Facebook 's origins and its founder  Mark Zuckerberg

Also set to leave Netflix is  Ryan Gosling  and  Harrison Ford 's sci-fi epic Blade Runner 2049, which received critical acclaim when it was released in 2017.

So which films and TV series are set to leave Netflix on May 1? Here's the biggest titles that fans are set to miss...

Directed by David Fincher, The Social Network was lauded by critics when it hit cinemas in 2010, telling the story of how Zuckerberg created one of the biggest websites in history, and the enemies he made along the way.

While the film was an awards favourite, and Jessie Eisenberg was lauded for his performance, Mark himself was not thought to be a fan of the film.

Speaking at a Q&A session in 2014, he contested the accuracy of the flick by revealing: 'They just kind of made up a bunch of stuff that I found kind of hurtful.'

The Social Network earned over $220million at the box office and scored three Academy Awards for Best Adapted Screenplay, Best Original Score and Best Film Editing.

The original Blade Runner feature was based on Philip K. Dick's 1968 novel Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep? and starred Harrison Ford as police officer Rick Deckard, who agrees to hunt a group of synthetic humans.

The film received a mixed reception upon its initial release, although it has since received an overwhelmingly positive response in the years following its original debut and earned a huge cult following.

For many years fans called for a sequel, and in 2017 their wishes were granted when Blade Runner 2049 hit cinemas.

The movie followed a replicant, portrayed by Ryan Gosling, who is tasked with tracking down Deckard, who had been missing for three decades.

The feature, which also starred Ana De Armas, Mackenzie Davis and Jared Leto, was received positively by critics and audiences.

iZombie aired on The CW from 2015 to 2019, and featured New Zealand actress Rose McIver, 27, as Seattle medical resident Olivia 'Liv' Moore who becomes a zombie at a boat party.

Liv eats the brains of murder victims delivered to the morgue in order to survive, which causes her to temporarily inherit their personality traits and experience flashbacks that provide insights into their murders.

The show aired for five seasons and was created by Rob Thomas, who previously helmed the short-lived series Veronica Mars.

One of Adam Sandler's earlier roles came in the late 90s comedy Big Daddy, where he starred alongside child stars Dylan and Cole Sprouse, Jon Stewart and Rob Schneider.

The film tells the story of a lazy law school graduate who adopts a child to impress his girlfriend, but when things don't go to plan, he becomes the most unlikely of foster fathers.

Big Daddy was directed by Dennis Dugan, who has become a longtime collaborator of Adam's, working on films including Grown Ups, Just Go With It and Jack And Jill.

Oliver Stone's action thriller Savages boasted a star-studded cast when it hit cinemas, with names including Blake Lively, Aaron Johnson, Taylor Kitsch, John Travolta and Salma Hayek.

The film focused on a pair of friends who are cannabis growers, forced to confront the Mexican drug cartel in order to free their shared girlfriend when she is kidnapped.

It earned mixed reviews upon its release and grossed $83million.