Ballet, jazz, tumbling, hip-hop, cheer, and gymnastics are just a few examples of the more female-dominated sports women can take part in. Along with these sports and their players may bring stigma and stereotypes to those who dedicate their time to perfect their skills. Under-representation, minimal to no student sections, and beliefs of the incapability in their sport may be more prominent in these female-dominated sports.

The Grosse Pointe Unified gymnastics team is a combined team of girls from South and North. The team earned their spot earlier this year in states, ending their season on a positive note. Coach Izzy Nguyen, with many years of gymnastics experience, helped out the team this year after competing herself all four years for North’s team in her high school career. According to Nyguen, the team has been pretty small the past few years, this has been the biggest she’s coached for. I think a lot of girls are afraid to try out, gymnastics is a tough sport,” Nguyen said.

Along with a lack of wide participation, the girls often find themselves unknown to many. Gymnast Brooke Lezotte ‘23 devoted part of her senior year to competing on the gymnastics team.“A lot of times people don’t even know about the team,” Lezotte said. The team is not light on their hard work and sets their expectations high. Practice is Monday through Thursday including weekly meets Tuesdays and Saturdays. A day of training is a two-hour practice and 30 minutes is spent on each event (floor, bars, beam, and vault).“It was really fun practicing every day and I couldn’t be happier I joined my senior year, the team is so fun because it’s so small and we are all so close,” Lezotte said.

Although South’s dance team is small, some girls and boys decide to dance at a separate studio unaffiliated with the school’s team. Phoebe King ’23, dances six to seven days a week and takes required core technique classes and electives, which are spread out throughout the week. King believes with dance, there comes a little stigma around their athletes. “A lot of people don’t view it as a sport because they don’t think it’s as athletic, or it’s too feminine to be a sport,” King said. “In reality though, while it’s technically a “performing art”, dance is incredibly athletic and has so many different sides to it, some of them extremely competitive.”

Not only is dance a form of expression and athleticism, but its benefits may also be useful to those who don’t know it.“It can also be very helpful for athletes of other sports (a lot of football players take ballet to improve things like balance, stability, strength, and flexibility),” King said. King finds dance a way to express herself and believes it brings people together no matter their gender.“A lot of people see dance as only for girls. I hope this changes in the future because that’s another reason it’s not taken seriously a lot of the time. It also makes it hard for a lot of boys to go into dance because of bullying and stereotypes.”