ARTOTELGroup, in collaboration with PT. Mahkota Maju Adi Perkasa, has added another property with the Kyriad franchise brand in Lampung province, namely Kyriad M2 Lampung. The hotel officially operates on April 15, 2023.

Located at Jalan Raden Imba Kusuma No.188, Sumur Putri, Teluk Betung, Bandar Lampung City, Kyriad M2 Lampung has 50 rooms with an area of 20 m2 each. Each room is equipped with complete amenities such as Smart TV with local and international channels, bathroom with showers. In addition, the hotel, which has a modern industrial design concept, is equipped with several supporting facilities for guests, including a swimming pool, Daun Semanggi restaurant and two meeting rooms with a capacity of up to 190 people. In terms of location, this hotel is surrounded by several attractive tourist destinations, namely Lembah Batu, Sumur Putri, Puncak Mas, Lampung City Mall and Boemi Kedaton Mall. Access from and to Raden Inten II International Airport is also quite easy to reach in just 40 minutes.

Eduard R. Pangkerego, Chief Operating Officer, ARTOTEL Group, explains, "As a licensee for the Kyriad brand, ARTOTELGroup believes that the Kyriad brand can be accepted by the Indonesian people as a three-star hotel brand with an international network that has the advantage of its value-for-money hotel concept for domestic travelers, both for business and leisure trips. With the presence of the Kyriad M2 Lampung, this hotel will increase the availability of international standard accommodation needed by the province of Lampung as a transit destination for business activities on the island of Sumatra and can even contribute to increasing tourism in the province of Lampung."

Rubiyanto, Owner, PT Mahkota Maju Adi Perkasa, added, "As an owner, the Kyriad brand will definitely be widely accepted among the public, especially those who like travelers. With a beautiful view of the combination of sea and mountains, it brings a calm and comfortable feel when staying in Kyriad. Moreover, for now, Kyriad M2 Lampung is the only hotel that is at the top, surrounded by many tourist destinations."

In conjunction with the opening period, Kyriad M2 Lampung offers a special price for a special stay of IDR 416,000 net/night, which includes breakfast (or suhoor during Ramadan) for two persons. This price is valid from April 15 April to May 15, 2023, and reservations can be made via telephone number +62 721 5604 156, whatsapp +62 887 7135 200 or email to [email protected].