Develop and implement effective communications activities for external customers and stakeholders. Write and optimize content for the website, digital newsletters, print publications and social networking sites. Ensure consistency in terms of voice, branding, messaging and frequency of posting via digital channels.

In consultation with the office of Executive Director work closely with the media to improve the portrayal of HRDs profile in the media.

Collaborate with management to develop and implement an effective communications strategy based on our target audience.

Takes the lead in strategy, planning, development and implementation of a large, complex communications campaign; works with various partners – UN entities, NGOs, private sector, and affected communities -to implement the campaign.

Write, edit, and distribute content, including publications, press releases, website content, annual reports, activity engagements, significant change stories, speeches, and other marketing material that communicates the organization’s activities, products and/or services.

Manage adherence to all branding requirements for all NCHRD-U communications.

Manage ongoing discussions on key prevailing issues using twitter spaces and other social media engagements.

Respond to media inquiries and arrange interviews for the organization.

Establish and maintain effective relationships with journalists, and maintain a media database.

Seek opportunities to enhance the reputation of the brand, and coordinate publicity events as required.

Maintain records of media coverage and collate analytics and metrics.

Takes the lead in organizing media outreach; arranges all media contacts, press briefings, and interviews; provides talking points and other materials as needed for senior staff; responds to media inquiries quickly and effectively.

Assisting in conducting daily media reviews to identify articles relevant to the work of NCHRDU.

Coordinate production of various customized information products including audio/visual communication for NCHRDU.

Be responsible for drafting beginning and end of year press statement on the protection situation of HRDs.

Be responsible for preparation of other communication materials by writing articles in print newspaper, press releases, conferences statement on a quarterly basis. Conducting interviews, and arranging for press conferences.

Be responsible for sharing periodic (monthly, quarterly and annually) information to coalition members, journalists and editors on progress of implementation of activities of the coalition, protection cases handled and trends in relation to threats and protection needs of HRDs.

Be responsible for communicating attacks against HRDs such as office break-ins, arrests, etc. to relevant stakeholders including; CEOs, steering committee members, thematic working groups, editors & journalists, coalition members and referral network members for their interventions.

Regularly develop, edit and produce content for NCHRD-U website, google group discussions, twitter and face book.

In consultation, with the Executive Director generate digital protection tools/devices to enhance protection for HRDs.

Evaluates results and impact of various communication strategies.

Knowledge of different aspects of public information and communication;

Ability to address a range of issues in the context of human rights action, political developments, public attitudes and local conditions;

Ability to rapidly analyze and integrate diverse information from varied sources;

Ability to diplomatically handle sensitive situations with target audiences and cultivate productive relationships;

Ability to produce a variety of written and visual communications products in a clear, concise style;

Ability to deliver oral presentations to various audiences;

Shows pride in work and in achievements;

Is conscientious and efficient in meeting commitments, observing deadlines and achieving results;

Is motivated by professional rather than personal concerns; shows persistence when faced with difficult problems or challenges;

Takes responsibility for incorporating gender perspectives and ensuring the equal participation of women and men in all areas of work.

Applicant (s) should send theie applications to [email protected]  by 4pm not later than 14th/April 2023 or hand delivered to National Coalition of Human Rights Defenders-Uganda Plot 148, Semawatta road, Ntinda, Kampala