The Social Security System recently conducted its Run After Contribution Evaders (RACE) campaign in Caloocan City by issuing written orders to ten employers for not registering and remitting their employees’ contributions to SSS.

Said employers are those with businesses involving trucking, wholesale of various consumer goods, and management consultancy services with a total SSS contribution delinquency of around P7.03 million, affecting 127 employees.

Employers who received show cause orders were given 15 days to coordinate with SSS Kalookan Branch for appropriate and immediate compliance.

Currently, SSS offers two (2) programs for delinquent business and household employers – Contribution Penalty Condonation, Delinquency Management, and Restructuring Program (CPCoDe MRP), which covers all single proprietorships, corporations, partnerships, cooperatives, and associations, and Contribution Penalty Condonation and Restructuring Program (CPCR-P) for household employers.

Through the said programs, delinquent employers can pay the unremitted contributions of their employees, less penalties, through a one-time payment or installment term.

SSS Vice President for NCR North Division Fernando Nicolas emphasized the importance of employers’ compliance in fulfilling their legal obligations. “As our constant partners in providing social security protection to all Filipino workers in the private sector, this RACE activity is our commitment in obliging employers to comply with their primary responsibility of reporting and remitting their employee’s contributions to SSS for their respective employees to enjoy various benefits and loan privileges in times of uncertainties,” Nicolas said.

Meanwhile, SSS President and Chief Executive Officer Rolando Ledesma Macasaet is encouraging affected employers to settle their delinquencies and consider the flexible payment options available to avoid facing criminal charges and maintain their good standing with the SSS. In 2023, SSS initially kicked off its RACE Operations on March 03, 2023 with around 90 activities already scheduled in the National Capital Region (NCR).

Liked this post? Follow SwirlingOverCoffee on Facebook, YouTube, and Instagram.