The Department of Justice and Bureau of Corrections are set to release 532 persons deprived of liberty from different penal colonies in the country on 20 April.

BuCor Director General Gregorio Pio Catapang said the release is in line with the DoJ program under Justice Secretary Jesus Crispin Remulla to give the PDLs another chance to be with their families and their communities. It is also aimed at decongesting the different jail facilities in the country.

Included in the list of those who will be released are 75 PDLs from the maximum-security compound of the New Bilibid Prison in Muntinlupa City.

Two more PDLs will be released from the Reception and Diagnostic Center; 20 from Leyte Regional Prison and 62 from San Ramon Prison and Penal Farm.

A total of 16 PDLs will be released from Sablayan Prison Penal Farm; 24 from Iwahig Prison Penal Farm; 40 from Correction Institute for Women and 54 from Davao Prison Penal Farm.

According to Catapang, most of those who will be released have already completed their prison sentence and the others were given parole due to their good record while inside their respective detention facility.

Last month, the DOJ and BuCor have released more than 400 persons deprived of liberty (PDLs) from various prisons and penal farms in the country.

The agency released 401 PDLs that includes 163 from the NBP, 99 from the Davao Prison and Penal Farm (DPFF), and 47 from the Leyte Regional Prison.

Remulla reported that 25 inmates were released from the Correctional Institution for Women in Mandaluyong City.

He said the DOJ will continue with the reforms implemented in the BuCor, particularly the easing of prisons to release eligible inmates.

Of the 163 released from the NBP, 59 are from maximum security, 86 from medium security and 12 from minimum security while four were from the Reception and Diagnostic Center (RDC).

Majority or 169 of them were released after qualifying for parole, 106 due to the end of their ‘maximum sentence’ which includes Good Conduct Time Allowance (GCTA).

Read more Daily Tribune stories at: https://tribune.net.ph/