The No. 5 Arkansas Razorbacks secured a series win against the No. 16 Tennessee Volunteers with a 6-3 win in Game 2 at Baum-Walker Stadium. The Hogs improved to 28-7 on the year and 10-4 in conference play, remaining in sole possession of first place in the SEC West standings.

Will McEntire put together a quality start on the mound for Arkansas. The redshirt junior from Bryant (Ark.) allowed two runs on six hits while striking out five hitters in six innings of work, improving to 5-1 on the year.

Freshman Gage Wood picked up a save for the third consecutive week after tossing three innings in relief for the Hogs. The freshman from Batesville (Ark.) struck out six Tennessee hitters and allowed just one hit.

The Razorbacks finished with just four hits in the game, but they each drove in runs. Jace Bohrofen got things started with a two-run home run in the first inning, his 10th home run of the year and fourth in the last four games. Ben McLaughlin provided the third Arkansas run with his single up the middle in the fifth inning. Kendall Diggs and Caleb Cali provided insurance runs with their RBI singles in the bottom of the seventh.

For the second day in a row, Jared Dickey led the game off with a solo home run to right field for Tennessee. Two more Vols reached in the inning, but a rundown between third base and home plate led to a 5-2-5-4-3 putout before McEntire got a groundout to end the frame.

Tavian Josenberger led off the bottom half with an 11-pitch at-bat that ended in a walk. After he swiped second base for his eight stolen bag of the year, Jace Bohrofen gave Arkansas a 2-1 lead with a 447-foot home run over the scoreboard in right field.

McEntire worked around a one-out walk in his second inning of work, and Tennessee starter Chase Dollander retired the side in order while picking up his third and fourth strikeouts of the night.

Dylan Dreiling started the third inning with a double to right-center for Tennessee, and Christian Moore was walked after him. The Hogs escaped the jam with an unassisted double play on a liner hit right to John Bolton at shortstop before a groundout to Brady Slavens at first base ended the frame.

Dollanded added two more strikeouts in his third inning of work and struck out Slavens to complete his third consecutive scoreless frame in the fourth inning.

McEntire retired the side in order in the fourth, and the wind cost him a chance at another in the fifth as a pop fly fell in shallow left field with two outs, but a nice play by Kendall Diggs up against the wall in foul ground ended the frame.

Caleb Cali snapped a streak of 11 straight Hogs retired in the fifth inning as he ripped a 106 mile-per-hour line drive to left field, and Dickey couldn't hang on for the catch. The next pitch was hit by Ben McLaughlin up the middle for an RBI single to score Cali and make it a 3-1 game.

Dollander's day ended after he issued a walk to Bolton with one on and one out in the fifth. LHP Kirby Connell made his second appearance of the weekend and retired both hitters he faced to limit the damage.

Blake Burke got the run right back for the Vols with his solo home run to start the sixth inning against McEntire. Kavares Tears came in to pinch hit for the Vols and lined a single off the wall, but a strike-em-out, throw-em-out ended the frame for the Hogs to keep it a 3-2 game.

The Hogs loaded the bases with a hit-by-pitch and two walks in the bottom of the sixth with one out, but Tennessee reliever Camden Sewell got a couple of huge strikeouts to escape the jam unscathed and keep it a one-run game.

The Razorbacks turned to Gage Wood on the mound in the seventh inning. Christian Scott singled to left field with one out and got up to third base with two outs after a stolen base and a wild pitch, but Wood got a big strikeout to leave him stranded.

Bolton was hit by a pitch to start the home half of the seventh, promptly stole a base and then moved up to third on a sacrifice bunt by Josenberger. Stovall was hit by a pitch after him, and a throwing error on Sewell on a pickoff attempt allowed Bolton to score easily from third. With two outs, the Hogs got a pair of singles from Diggs and Cali to extend the lead to 6-2.

Wood added a pair of strikeouts in the top of the eighth inning while retiring the side in order. The Hogs went down in order before Wood returned in the ninth and got the final three outs.

The Razorbacks and Volunteers will return to Baum-Walker Stadium tomorrow afternoon for the series finale. First pitch is set for 2 p.m. (CDT) and will be streamed on SEC Network Plus.