Because many different peoples have lived and interacted in Iran over the millennia, and the Silk Road passed through the country, Persian cuisine is a beautiful blend of many different culinary cultures—Persian, Kurdish, Azeri, Armenian, Balochi, Turkmeni, Mazanderani, Arab, Luri, Jewish, and many more. Additionally, Persian cuisine differs by region, city, and town.

Breakfast is most commonly flatbreads, white cheese, butter cubes, nuts (esp. walnuts), fruit jams, and sarshir, a whipped heavy cream. A popular breakfast item is pacha, boiled sheep’s head with the brain inside, seasoned with lemon and cinnamon, and usually served as soup.

Meals are traditionally eaten sitting on cushions, with the food set out on a sofreh, tablecloth, over a rug or very low table. Because carpets and rugs cover the floors, and shoes are removed when entering a house, floors are very clean.

The main dishes are in the middle of the sofreh, with side dishes, breads, condiments, spices, and appetizers around the perimeter. Many traditional foods can take several hours to prepare.

Iran’s traditional drinks are tea and coffee; indeed, tea is the very first thing offered to guests. Tea is sweetened with sugar cubes, traditionally put in one’s mouth before drinking. Rock candies are also common sweeteners, usually made with saffron. Coffee is very strong, yet also sweet.

Other popular drinks include pomegranate juice, carrot juice, doogh (cold yoghurt mixed with salt and mint), sharbat (a sweet fruit drink made with flower petals), sekanjabin (made of honey, vinegar, and mint), and khakshir (a sweet drink made with tansy mustard seeds). Though alcohol has been outlawed since 1979, many people secretly drink wine and aragh sagi (which literally means “doggy distillate” and is made from raisins).

Since sugar became common in the region in the seventh century, sweets have been a beloved part of Persian cuisine. They include baklava, gaz (nougat candy), many types of cookies, pashmak (cotton candy), gosh-e fil (fried dough topped with powdered sugar and pistachios), pulaki (disc-shaped thin sugar candies), nabat chubi (rock candy), sohan (saffron brittle with nuts), bamie (deep-fried dough balls soaked in sugar syrup), reshteh khoshkar (fried rice flour filled with sugar, cinnamon, ginger, ground nuts, and cardamom), fereni (sweet rice pudding with rosewater), and halvah.

Traditional Persian ice-cream, bastani, is made with rosewater, pistachios, and saffron, and sometimes clotted cream flakes, with origins in the Achaemenid Empire in the year 500 BCE. Ab havij bastani is an ice-cream float with carrot juice, nutmeg, and cinnamon.

Rice and bread are staples of Persian cuisine, though rice was traditionally the domain of the wealthy and the northern part of the country, while bread was more used by lower classes. There are many different types of flatbread, and several sweet breads.

Like other cuisines from this part of the world, Persian cuisine too makes frequent use of spices. Common spices are cardamom, saffron, cinnamon, ginger, nutmeg, turmeric, Persian hogweed, toasted ground sesame seeds, and heavily salted parsley and cilantro. Rosewater is also a very popular flavouring.

Khoresh is a stew which comes in many different varieties. Though they’re frequently meat-based, there are vegetarian versions, such as mushroom, spinach and prune, green bean, rhubarb, and carrots. Common ingredients in khoresh include zucchini, tomatoes, split peas, okra, onions, potatoes, lamb, beef, eggplant, and celery.

Fruits frequently enjoyed in desserts, main dishes, and by themselves are figs, dates, plums, apricots, and peaches, both fresh and dried. Eggplants are known as the potato of Iran. Other common vegetables are squash, garlic, onion, carrot, pumpkins, green beans, spinach, and cucumbers.

Other common foods are kebabs, dolma (stuffed grape leaves), kuku (whipped eggs folded into herbs or potatoes), kufte (giant meatballs), omelettes (which originated in Ancient Persia), polow (pilaf), Iranian pizza (made with thick dough, lots of cheese, and a plethora of toppings), yoghurt dips, and soups.

The national dish is chelow kebab, steamed rice with kebabs of choice, served with grilled tomatoes, butter, basil, sumac powder, and onions. Traditionally, when one buys this at the bazaar, the rice and side dishes are eaten first, followed by skewered kebabs and flatbread. While holding the skewer on the rice, the kebab is pulled off with the bread.

Doogh is the traditional beverage accompanying this.

The earliest known surviving Persian cookbooks date from 1521 and about 1597. Their recipes don’t differ much from modern Persian cookery, though since they were written for large aristocratic households, there are huge quantities of ingredients and luxury items like saffron.

Signature Persian Jewish dishes include shirin polo (rice pilaf, sometimes with a crispy crust, topped with nuts and dried fruits), gondi (large meatballs made with chickpea flour and served in soup), and celery and mint khoresh.

The cultural osmosis went both ways. In addition to incorporating foods from other cultures, Persian cuisine in turn influenced much of Indian and Pakistani cuisine. There are also many Persian restaurants in the Iranian diaspora, particularly in Los Angeles, San Francisco, Toronto, and Houston.