Freightos (NASDAQ:CRGO – Get Rating) and Expeditors International of Washington (NASDAQ:EXPD – Get Rating) are both business services companies, but which is the better business? We will compare the two companies based on the strength of their earnings, valuation, risk, institutional ownership, dividends, profitability and analyst recommendations.

This table compares Freightos and Expeditors International of Washington’s net margins, return on equity and return on assets.

This is a summary of recent ratings and recommmendations for Freightos and Expeditors International of Washington, as reported by MarketBeat.com.

Freightos currently has a consensus target price of $10.50, indicating a potential upside of 233.33%. Expeditors International of Washington has a consensus target price of $100.38, indicating a potential downside of 10.04%. Given Freightos’ stronger consensus rating and  higher probable upside, equities research analysts clearly believe Freightos is more favorable than Expeditors International of Washington.

This table compares Freightos and Expeditors International of Washington’s gross revenue, earnings per share (EPS) and valuation.

Expeditors International of Washington has higher revenue and earnings than Freightos.

71.1% of Freightos shares are owned by institutional investors. Comparatively, 93.3% of Expeditors International of Washington shares are owned by institutional investors. 19.6% of Freightos shares are owned by company insiders. Comparatively, 0.7% of Expeditors International of Washington shares are owned by company insiders. Strong institutional ownership is an indication that hedge funds, large money managers and endowments believe a company will outperform the market over the long term.

Expeditors International of Washington beats Freightos on 6 of the 10 factors compared between the two stocks.

Freightos Limited provide freight booking and payment platform which connects participants across the international freight ecosystem, including airlines, ocean liners and trucking companies, as well as freight forwarders. Freightos Limited, formerly known as Gesher I Acquisition Corp., is based in JERUSALEM.

Expeditors International of Washington, Inc. engages in the provision of global logistics services. The firm offers air freight, ocean freight and ocean and customs brokerage and other services. It also provides customer solutions such as order management, time-definite transportation, warehousing and distribution, temperature-controlled transit, cargo insurance and customized logistics solutions. The company was founded by John M. Kaiser, Peter Rose, Wang Li Kou, Kevin Walsh, Hank Wong, George Ho, Robert Chiarito, and Glenn Alger in 1979 and is headquartered in Seattle, WA.

Receive News & Ratings for Freightos Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Freightos and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter.