Samsung could remove one camera from its upcoming Galaxy S24 Ultra model. Rumors suggest that the South Korean phone maker could scrap the now-signature-found telephoto camera off its premium lineup to achieve higher utility out of the device.

Samsung has been launching Ultra variant devices in its Galaxy S series since 2021. If you were unaware, these devices come with a 3x telephoto and a 10x periscope telephoto unit. Reliable leakster @iceuniverse claims that next year’s Galaxy S24 Ultra model won’t have the quad-camera setup hinting at a 3-camera setup on the rear.

It’s suggested that the device will come with a merged periscope telephoto and 3x telephoto sensors. There’s another report that says Samsung will remove the 3x telephoto lens and replace it with a variable folding telephoto. The lens will consist of a 3x to 10x zoom capacity.

The idea of one less camera from the Galaxy S24 Ultra could put off some loyal but shouldn’t be a deal-breaker either. Because more sensors don’t translate to better images. It’s just like having a higher megapixels camera won’t equate to high-quality images. And again, even if this is true, Samsung is merging the two different sensors into one. So, in terms of functionality, there won’t be a compromise as much as with the aesthetics for those who have liking to the model which gets 4 cameras on the back.

Additionally, having one less camera would mean more space to enhance device utilities. Samsung may use the free space to house a larger battery, likely 5,500mAh. It could also introduce more efficient fast-charging hardware with the S24 Ultra model. Currently, the top-tier device comes with a moderate 45W fast charger, far less than what other Android phone makers are offering.

You may also like to read: OPPO Could Launch on 300W SuperVOOC Fast-Charging

There’s no hint from Samsung yet, but since many tipsters have already made similar claims, there could be some credibility.

Would you want Samsung to remove one camera from its Galaxy S24 Ultra phone in exchange for a higher battery and other capacities? Do share your opinion in the comments below.