NOW that a new season is here, it’s time to put our winter warmers to the back of our wardrobe and bring out the Spring and Summer styles.

But if your closet is in need of a revamp to make the most of the warmer weather, look no further.

A fashion fan and style pro has shared her top tips on the items she thinks everyone needs to see them through Spring as they can be mixed and matched.

And, according to TikTok user @Missy_elz, fashionistas should be running to high street store Uniqlo to stock up.

@Missy_elz went to the shop and bought a haul of eight items, as she showed off each one one by one, adding them to a classic outfit she’d purchased – jeans and a white T-shirt.

In a video posted to her social media account, she explained: “Here’s my haul of eight Spring staples.

“Jeans and a white T-shirt is my favourite base,” she said as she reached for a grey blazer with stylish ruched sleeves.

“Then I got this blazer which just makes this outfit so easy to wear multiple ways,” she added as she showed how it could go from day to night by changing up shoes and accessories.

The next item in her shopping bag was a hidden support vest, which she again teamed with her light denim jeans for an effortless look.

She said: “I got this vest which has hidden support so no bra needed.

“You can wear it by itself, with the blazer, with a shirt or a cardigan – so many options.”

This led @Missy_elz onto her next must-buy – a chunky cardigan perfect for covering up when it’s a little breezy outside.

She explained: “This cardigan is the perfect knit for Spring.”

Another of her Uniqlo purchases was a “simple striped top” in black and white.

The TikToker went on to say: “It’ll work with everything from casual to smart to the office.”

While her final purchase was one of the best – a pair of smart cream trousers in a wide leg design.

Singing their praises, @Missy_elz revealed: “I’ve talked about these before, but look how versatile they are – and they’re not see-through.”

She then showed how she’d teamed them with a variety of the other things she’d bought for her capsule wardrobe, including the navy and white striped shirt and white tee.

@Missy_elz concluded at the end of the video: “These eight staples are the perfect pieces to create multiple looks.”

And her followers agreed, as they described the ensembles as “gorgeous” and timeless.