Marina, Ched work together to produce better Filipino seafarers

THE Maritime Industry Authority (Marina) and the Commission on Higher Education (Ched) will work closely together to monitor maritime schools and ensure that the enhanced curriculum is being implemented and that the institutions are furnished with the necessary equipment and facilities in order for the country to produce better seafarers.

In a press conference on Wednesday, April 12, 2023, Ched Chairperson J. Prospero De Vera III said Marina, Ched, and maritime higher education institutions have put together the enhanced curriculum in the bid to elevate the country’s maritime standards and address the deficiencies earlier noted by the European Union.

“We must make sure it is implemented correctly so the enhanced curriculum satisfies compliance with standards of the STCW (International Convention on Standards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping for Seafarers),” he said.

“Number two, we must be able to monitor all the maritime schools not just in implementing the curriculum but making sure they have the equipment that is necessary, they have competent teachers, they have good facilities so that the intended competencies and outcomes can be measured correctly and satisfy the standards of EMSA (European Maritime Safety Agency),” De Vera added.

Among the deficiencies noted by the EU on the country’s maritime and seafaring sector are on monitoring, supervision and evaluation of manning training and assessment; examination and assessment of competence, programs and course design and approval; availability and use of training facilities and simulators; onboard training and issue revalidation and recognition of certification endorsements.

They also tapped the Philippine Coast Guard (PCG) as a partner in monitoring and evaluating the maritime education institutions nationwide.

De Vera said Ched has already declared a five-year moratorium on new programs to be able to focus on the evaluation of the existing programs.

“Ibig sabihin, for the next five years starting when we declared it last year, we will not allow any new maritime programs to be opened so that we will be able to focus on evaluating the existing programs. Mahirap kasi kung wala kang moratorium, habang ini-evaluate mo iyong existing nag-i-evaluate ka din ng bago, parang walang katapusan iyan,” De Vera said.

In March, the EU Commission extended its recognition of the Philippine government’s maritime education, training and certification for seafarers after assessing the actions taken by the Philippine government to address the deficiencies in the International Convention on Standards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping for Seafarers (STCW Convention) and Code.

Without the certification from the commission, Filipino seafarers are at risk of losing jobs with EU ships. (SunStar Philippines)

SunStar website welcomes friendly debate, but comments posted on this site do not

necessarily reflect the views of the SunStar management and its affiliates. SunStar reserves the right to

delete, reproduce, or modify comments posted here without notice. Posts that are inappropriate will

automatically be deleted.

Do not use obscenity. Some words have been banned. Stick to the topic. Do not veer away from the

discussion. Be coherent. Do not shout or use CAPITAL LETTERS!

For your advertising needs, call us at (032) 254-0217.

For SunStar website ads, you may also write to:

specialpublications@gmail.com

lmechavez@sunstar.com.ph