Yakult, the fermented milk drink, is making it easier than ever for consumers to look after their wellbeing, with the launch of Yakult Plus.

Available now, Yakult Plus is a fermented milk drink with a fruity citrus flavour (and new vibrant green branding), Each little bottle of Yakult Plus is bursting with 20 billion friendly bacteria, which are scientifically proven to reach the gut alive.

Yakult Plus is also rich in vitamin C (accounting for 30 per cent of the EU reference intake) which supports the immune system and helps lower fatigue. Plus, it contains fibre that can feed the bacteria in the gut.

Yakult Plus is fat-free, gluten-free, and suitable for vegetarians, like the rest of the Yakult range, and is 30 calories per bottle.

Plus, it comes in a fridge friendly 8 x 65ml bottles pack format, standing out on shelf in its green recyclable cardboard carton.

Yakult is also moving its existing, best-selling varieties of Yakult Original and Yakult Light, from 7 x packs of 65ml bottles, to 8-packs, with fully recyclable, shelf-ready cardboard packaging.

Yakult is supporting the launch of Yakult Plus with social and digital communication in April, as well as influencer activation in May to engage and inspire consumers on how they can look after their own wellbeing. The launch will also be driven by PR, broadcast, print, OOH, and shopper in-store.

“When it comes to our wellbeing, every day, little things can make a powerful difference – from the food we eat, to the activities we take part in,” said Hiroaki Yoshimura, MD for Yakult UK & Ireland. “Which is why we’re thrilled to be able to play an even bigger role in supporting wellbeing, as we launch Yakult Plus. With a fresh look, a brand-new taste and the added benefits of vitamin C and fibre, we’re confident that Yakult Plus will comfortably find a place in our customers’ wellbeing routines. Plus, being able to offer the bigger retail packs, in a more sustainable packaging, helps to make looking after our wellness, more convenient than ever.”