Located 100 km away from Uttar Kashi of Uttarakhand, Gangotri, or the origin of Ganga, is the point where River Ganga touches the earth. After the Gangavataran, this point where Ganges first set foot on earth came to be known as Gangotri. Situated on the banks of Bhagirathi River, the Gangotri temple is a

holy centre of pilgrimage for Hindus. Around 3100 metres above sea level, upon the greater Himalaya range, the Mother Ganga ebbs out from its source.

Gangotri temple is one of the Char Dhams that is known for its impassable terrain. Ganga originates in Gangotri glacier which is about 24 kilometers of distance from here. Along with Temple of Ganga, one can find temples of Sun, Vishnu and Brahmkund in the vicinity. Gangotri is also one of the four char dhams, the others being Yamunotri, Badrinath, and Kedarnath..

The source of river Bhagirathi is known as "Gaumukh", which is 19 kilometres away from Gangotri, at an altitude of 3,892 meters. It is a

store house of power that washes away the sins of the devotee as soon as he takes a

holy dip in it.

Composed of white granite stone, built in the 18 th century architectural tradition, the Gangotri temple stands as tall as 20 feet, with a

Sabha Mandap leading to the sanctum of the shrine. At the top there are three main domes and some small domes with golden shikharas. This temple is equipped well enough to withstand the onslaughts of time and weather.

As per the puranas, king Sagara decided to perform ashwamedha yaga to kill all demons on earth and get the credit for this deed. Indra as per some divine scheme, hid the kings horse in Kapila Maharshis ashram. Sagara and his sons searched the entire earth but were unable to spot the horse. Finally when the horse was found grazing inside Rishi Kapila's ashram, the angry young sons of Sagara attacked the Rishi who then opened his eyes and cursed all of them.

All the children turned into ashes in no time. Sagaras grandson Bhagiratha penanced for long years to seek forgiveness on behalf of his ancestors who were cursed by Kapila Maharshi. His plan was to bring Ganga to Earth so that she could cleanse their sins by flowing on their ashes. Gangotri temple is actually very near the rock on which Bhagiratha sat to do his penance.

Shiva, came in at the right moment, and held the raging torrents of Ganga in his matted locks. Ganga flowed in five streams from the matted locks in a

controlled fashion. The place where Ganga as released from the matted locks of Lord Shiva is the original point of Gangotri. Now in the same place, a

shiv ling is installed that is near the Gangotri temple. As per another legend, Pandavas also had arrived here in order to wipe away the sins incurred due to killing of their own kith and kin.

Around 300 years ago, a

Nepalese General, Amar Singh Thapa built this temple as a

symbol of respect towards the Goddess. It was later renovated by the Royal family of Jaipur. There is some sort of a

sacred vibration that this temple emits within that just soothes your tired nerves.

Monsoon is when the area is likely to be affected by landslides that are frequent in nature, Hence it would be wise to carry warm clothes. Parking area for vehicles exists but devotees, after parking their vehicles, have to walk to the premises of the temple barefoot. Be careful while driving as heavy rains and landslides might upset your plans. Book rooms well before hand if you plan to stay back at Gangotri for a

longer time.