The most intense rivalry in women’s hockey will determine the world champion once again after Canada and the United States delivered convincing victories in Saturday’s semifinals at the CAA Centre in Brampton.

The Americans played perhaps their best game of the week and dispatched the physical Czechs, 9-1, before Canada produced a boatload of scoring chances and got a hat trick from Brampton-born Sarah Fillier in a 5-1 win over the Swiss.

On Sunday night, the powerhouses of the women’s game — both tested at times during a tournament where other countries showed signs of closing the gap — will face off for gold at the worlds for the 21st time.

“They play fast, they play a solid game and they’ll be physical, and so will we,” said Canadian captain Marie Philip-Poulin, with a third straight championship on the line. “It will come down to who takes care of the little details. It will be exciting.”

The Americans, who won five titles in a row before the Canadians went back-to-back the last two years, handled the Czechs more easily than expected with Hilary Knight, Amanda Kessel and Tessa Janecke scoring two goals apiece. Their only loss through six games came against the Canadians: 4-3 in a shootout on Monday.

After a dominating performance Saturday, Knight said the Americans are “always the underdogs” against Canada.

“Whenever the U. S.A. and Canada play, it’s the best game ever,” Knight said. “It’s always a hard-fought game … the fans get their money’s worth, and we as players put everything we have into it. It’s one of those rivalries that you can’t put into words.

The Americans cut five players from last year’s world championship squad and brought in six newcomers, all age 20 or younger. Canada’s roster, meanwhile, remains loaded with experience from past worlds and the Winter Olympics.

“We have 10 players who were playing college hockey this year and they’ve made the jump to the world championships,” American coach John Wroblewski said. “Canada didn’t lose a game … There’s a lot of challenges for our group, but I couldn’t be prouder of our team.”

With three goals on Saturday, Fillier tied Sweden’s Lina Ljungblom for the tournament lead with seven. Filler grew up in nearby Georgetown and has had several friends and family members in the stands at the CAA Centre, where sellout crowds of more than 4,500 fans have been common.

“I have a ton of family and friends here, and to see all the little girls in the stands, and to see the hats on the ice (for her hat trick), it’s really special,” she said.

Canadian coach Troy Ryan, who will also be an assistant coach at next month’s men’s worlds in Finland and Latvia, said he told Fillier to go out and “hunt” for goals.

“There’s a crazy little passion there with Sarah. And when she is herself and just plays like she can, you will see the success,” said Ryan, adding that Fillier has learned a lot from the team’s captain.

“There’s a trajectory there where Sarah could follow in the same footsteps and be a leader of the future … so it’s great for her to see and learn from Poulin, and how she is always humble and supportive of her teammates.”

Fillier’s linemates, Sarah Nurse and Natalie Spooner, picked up three assists Saturday.

“I’m lucky to have Sarah and Spoons out there with me, and I don’t have to feel as much pressure out there because of them,” Fillier said.

Jamie Lee Rattray and Rebecca Johnston also scored for the Canadians, who fired 59 shots at Swiss netminder Andrea Brändli. Canada’s Ann-Renée Desbiens faced just nine.

Spooner said the key for Canada in Sunday’s final will be to stick to their game plan of wearing opponents down with relentless pressure.

“These are games (against the U. S.) that we want to play,” Spooner said. “We’re excited to play them for gold. Every team in this tournament — and you’ve seen it — they’re giving us their best. But no matter who we play, if we play our game we have a chance at success.

“They are a great team, and we know we have to bring our best against them.”