No, it’s not naming a captain, trading first-round picks, moving a top-four defenseman, signing a free agent, or hiring new assistant coaches. Those things could happen, and Armstrong addressed them Saturday in his end-of-the-season interview with reporters, but that’s not his summer project.

The 58-year-old is going to spend some time in the coming months learning about the minds of the athletes in his organization age 18-25. How do they think? What do they want from their careers? Can he help them be successful based on their desires and the club’s desire?

In a candid conversation, Armstrong admitted that during a season that went massively awry, he lost the pulse of today’s young players.

“I said to some of the veteran players that this is the most disconnected I’ve felt with the largest part of our organization — our players,” he said. “Craig (Berube) and I have to spend the summer talking to professional people that know what these players go through and what makes them tick.

Armstrong has been in the business long enough, and had enough success, to know that those days are long gone. But in recent years, he could ask questions of his own children — son Blake and daughter Kayla — and find a way to relate to the Blues’ young players. Now, though, his two kids are in their late 20s and unable to help Dad when it comes to what motivates the new generation.

“I was able to understand what the 20-year-old was going through when I could see how my kids were reacting to things in life,” he said.

Armstrong came up with an example to make his point.

“There’s a group of players, and I’m not saying they’re bad or they’re wrong, but they’ll play 18 minutes (in a game) to get an 18-second shift that can go on YouTube and get a million likes and think that that was a good night,” he said bluntly. “I have to understand what makes them think like that and how we can say, ‘You can have that, but can you also give us this?'”

The Blues have a team psychologist on staff, Scot McFadden, but Armstrong seemed interested in soliciting help outside the organization from someone who specializes in this subject. But he’d be specifically interested in studies involving the types of people he’s dealing with, not the average youth.

“I don’t really need to know what’s going through the mind of a 21-year-old at Mizzou,” Armstrong said. “I need to know what’s going on with a 21-year-old high-level athlete and so I have to find out who’s dealing with high-level athletes from 18-25.

“I have to ask them, ‘What do I need to do to give them the best chance for success because I don’t believe I’m doing that right now, because I don’t believe I understand what they’re going through.’ I don’t get it anymore and it’s my job to get it, or get out. It’s a good summer project for an old man.”

Armstrong’s summer project seems to run parallel with what several Blues’ veterans said was an issue this season.

When asked about the team’s 28-point falloff in the standings from a year ago, and what was behind it, defenseman Justin Faulk didn’t hold back.

“I’m not a believer in stuff is just on (the) ice,” Faulk said. “I think our group let some stuff slip, let our habits slip, how we carry ourselves day to day. We need to be grown men in here, be mature, show up, do your work. That’s in practice, in the gym, off the ice. It’s just working hard and knowing what you’re asked to do. There’s a whole series of things that need to happen before you even go play a game.

“I think the (81 points in the standings) were a reflection of our inconsistencies as probably professionals a little bit this year. You can get back up to that level that we were last year, but you need to carry yourself day to day as a group and have that foundation. Then you give yourselves a chance.”

Brayden Schenn echoed Faulk’s sentiments with the same degree of honesty.

“I think from the very beginning, we probably didn’t come together as a team,” Schenn said. “We’ve always said the Blues aren’t built on superstars with (Edmonton’s Connor) McDavid and (Colorado’s Nathan) MacKinnon, guys that can easily win you a game each night. We feel that we have to play together and we probably didn’t do that enough this year.

“It boils down a little bit to guys worrying about themselves too much. Realistically that’s what kind of happens. When you worry about yourself and your individual play, you’re not worried as a team as much, and that’s not a culture you want to have. It shows when you’re not a team. It’s tough to win, and we proved that this year. So we’ve got to get back to building something next year with each other.”

The culture began crumbling and, Armstrong said, it carried into the other aspects of the game.

“We as an organization let our standards slip to what was acceptable in the things that the fans never saw, which was the practice sessions, the preparedness for practice,” he said. “The guys are going on the ice at 11 o’clock and I go get a coffee at 10:50 to go out and watch and guys are doing (questionable things) to prepare I’ve never seen before. It’s also our practice habits. There were too many practices where we would not shoot enough. We would miss the net. We would overpass it. The next drill would go on and the same thing would happen, and the next night we’d go 14-15 minutes with no shots on net and we’re going, ‘Geez, how did that happen?’

“Or our defensive zone coverage … there would be no competitive nature to our practice in front of the net. We would give up scoring opportunities in practice and it was just acceptance. I believe that bled into our season. Work has to be thought of as enjoyable, not a punishment. I felt this was the first year our group felt work was punishment.”

If you’re thinking a captain might help, Armstrong isn’t so sure the Blues will put a “C” on a player next season. He says he’ll consult with Berube, along with his management staff and a pair of retired players, Barret Jackman and David Backes.

“It’s something I thought about when (Alex Pietrangelo) left,” Armstrong said. “What is the role of a captain and is the role of a captain in (the) sport anymore? I don’t know if there is. I think you have such a group dynamic in everything these guys deal with. I don’t know if you need a C or if you need multiple A’s to pull a team together. I think that if you’re a leader, you don’t need a C. You’re going to do that with your actions.

“I haven’t decided (if the Blues will have a captain), but I’m saying there’s a possibility there couldn’t be. I guarantee we won’t be announcing one in the next few months.”

As for Armstrong’s other projects, the Blues have three first-round draft picks, which leads to the question of, ‘Will they keep them or trade them for NHL-ready players?’ They currently have the No. 10 pick and will find out later when the picks they acquired in trades with Toronto and the New York Rangers will come in the first round.

“Pick No. 10, or however the lottery falls, I find it hard to believe that you’re not going to see me (walk) up to the stage in Nashville and give a guy a jersey,” he said. “But the ones after that, they’re up for debate. If we can find players that can fit into the age group to grow with — 26-27 (years old), at least three years of term, a vision where you’re part of today plus tomorrow — that is the fun part of having the extra picks. There’s so many things now that we get to do.”

There’s also the possibility of moving a core player, perhaps a defenseman, which could drastically change the complexion of what the Blues might do this summer.

“I’m not guaranteeing that’s not going to happen, but not a lot of core players move in the NHL,” Armstrong said. “When they have, we’ve been part of (those trades). We’ve moved core players and brought core players in.

“But to think there’s just a hockey store I’m going to go to and say, ‘I’m just going to grab one of these and I’ll put that back on the shelf,’ I’m done with that … it doesn’t work that way. But we are going to be active to see if we can improve our team.”

Whether that can happen in free agency remains to be seen. The Blues are currently $6.7 million under the $83.5 million salary cap next season, and Armstrong has said in the past that they project to have about $4.2 million to spend.

“We’re not going to a major player (in free agency) unless things change, and if things change, that means cap space is open,” he said. “So as of today, no, we’re not going to be a major player. Now stay tuned.”

Until then, the Blues will have to hire an assistant coach, or two, to replace Mike Van Ryn and Craig MacTavish, who were both fired Friday. And when the Blues add to their staff, Armstrong will be keeping his summer project in mind.

“I would say that the resume pool is going to be open for all applicants, from junior hockey to college hockey to the American league hockey to NHL experience to no experience coaching,” he said. “I want to get working on my summer project, so I can find the right guy that has the skill sets to deal with today’s people.

“I don’t think there’s a wide variance between how Schenn thinks and (21-year-old Jake) Neighbours thinks. I don’t think it’s that huge, but there are small things in there, and if we can get a coach that understands those small things, it’s only going to help us.”