The Guinness World Record for the largest GPS drawing by a bicycle team has been awarded to a group of riders who drew a velociraptor that's 1,025km long (636 miles).

The dinosaur was 'drawn' by French cyclists Florent Arnaud, Maxime Brugère, Franck Delorme, Nicolas Meunier and Jean Roule, with the creature taking them 43 hours and 47 minutes to complete.

The team started and finished in Meillard in the Allier region in central France and crossed several other counties over six days of riding - Cher, Saone-et-Loire, Indre, Nievre, Creuse and Puy-de-Dome.

While the outing took place in November 2022 – after a year of planning - the record wasn't declared by Guinness World Records until March this year.

The team previously drew a T-Rex, in 2020, then a diplodocus in 2021, then discovered that there was a registered Guinness World Record for the longest GPS drawing by a bike team that 'looked beatable', a 761km- (472-mile) heart drawn in Egypt in 2018 by riders from the Egyptian arm of the firm Philips.

The dinosaur team, who belong to the Cyclos Randonneurs Saint-Galmier cycling group, said: 'Florent drew a velociraptor that was bigger than the previous record and we sent the file to Guinness for pre-approval!'

A velociraptor was chosen partly because it is a play on words with 'velo', which is 'bicycle' in French, and because dinosaurs are proof that even the toughest species aren't immune to extinction.

The team, comprised of triathletes on road bikes, revealed that they had several aims for the adventure, including spreading a message about being environmentally friendly.

They explained that they wanted to 'pursue a childish dream of having our names on a world record - especially the Guinness Book that we used to read - to share a great journey with friends doing what we like', and to 'promote transportation by bikes'.

They added: 'Most of us are daily bike commuters, environmentally engaged, who rarely use a car. We use our bikes for travelling also. Among the very complex issues that we are facing with global warming and other environmental crises, riding a bike instead of using a car only has advantages. It is good for physical health, mental health, it is cheap, and it avoids most road works and traffic jams.'

The activity was posted to the fitness app Strava and so far has received 3,917 likes and 217 comments.

The team added: 'Strava is a great social media for active people and it has also been a very good platform to promote our record, inspire people and - more importantly - talk, even a little bit, about sustainable mobility, promoting bicycles... as a way to replace cars.

'We were very happy to see thousands and thousands of enthusiastic people that liked and commented on this adventure!'