Rahul Gandhi, MP from Wayanad constituency was disqualified following his conviction by a Surat court concerning a case of criminal defamation. Mr. Gandhi’s membership stands canceled according to the Representation of the People Act, 1951. It is yet another debate whether the disqualification is motivated by political vendetta. Over the years many politicians have been subjected to such political vendetta.

Rahul Gandhi, MP from Wayanad constituency was disqualified following his conviction by a Surat court concerning a case of criminal defamation. Mr. Gandhi’s membership stands canceled according to the Representation of the People Act, 1951. It is yet another debate whether the disqualification is motivated by political vendetta. Over the years many politicians have been subjected to such political vendetta.

Rahul Gandhi, MP from Wayanad constituency was disqualified following his conviction by a Surat court concerning a case of criminal defamation. Mr. Gandhi’s membership stands canceled according to the Representation of the People Act, 1951.

The Representation of the People Act, of 1951 is an act of the Indian parliament that lays down the qualifications and disqualifications for membership in the lok sabha and the state legislative assemblies. It provides the grounds on which a person can be disqualified for being a member of either the house of parliament or the state legislative assembly.

Some of the grounds for disqualification under the Act include:

● Conviction for certain offenses such as corruption, bribery, or any offense related to elections.

● Holding an office of profit under the government of India or the state government.

● Undischarged insolvent.

● Non-resident Indian or a person who has acquired citizenship of another country.

● Mental unsoundness.

The Election Commission of India is responsible for enforcing the provisions of the Representation of the People Act, of 1951. If it is found that an elected representative is disqualified under the Act, the Election Commission may declare the seat vacant and order a by-election.

It was the same law and the exact provision under which Mr. Rahul Gandhi has been disqualified. The provision under section 8 (4) of the RP Act,1951 entails that in the course of conviction deliberated under section 8, a member shall be disqualified after 90 days from the date of such conviction within which he/she can file an appeal or revision and obtain a stay. The stay against the conviction by superior courts acts as a reversal of disqualification until the disposal or as it, the case may be. However, Hon’ble Supreme Court in its judgment in Lily Thomas vs. Union of India (2013) has struck down the particular provision of affording a time under section 8 (4). Hon’ble SC observed that:

“[…] if any sitting Member of Parliament or a State Legislature is convicted of any of the offences mentioned in sub-sections (1), (2) and (3) of Section 8 of the Act and by virtue of such conviction and/or sentence suffers the disqualifications mentioned in sub-sections (1), (2) and (3) of Section 8 of the Act after the pronouncement of this judgment, his membership of Parliament or the State Legislature, as the case may be, will not be saved by subsection (4). of Section 8 of the Act which we have by this judgment declared as ultra vires the Constitution notwithstanding that he files the appeal or revision against the conviction and/or sentence.”

The Union Government at the time proposed a saving ordinance to cast aside the judgment of the Supreme Court. But, then the same Rahul Gandhi opposed the ordinance of the then ruling congress coalition government, which could have protected him. In addition to his membership, Mr. RaGa shall also lose amenities and privileges granted to him as part of MP’s entitlements including Salary and allowance for residence, traveling allowance, constituency allowance, office expenses, etc.

Now, Mr. RaGa’s house caught fire due to the lamp of his own house and his own act. However, he has other options to save himself. he may approach the superior court to the Suraj Magistrate court to obtain a stay against his dismissal. It was held by the Hon’ble SC in Lok Prahari v Union of India (2018) case that disqualification shall be reversed in case of grant of stay against the order of conviction until the appeal is disposed of or the stay may be vacated. The law made by Mr. Nehru for the cause of preventing the criminalization of politics and keeping away flawed politicians from contesting elections has flawed time and again his political household as well. Mrs. Indra Gandhi and Mrs. Sonia Gandhi has also been disqualified under RP Act, 1951.

It is yet another debate whether the disqualification is motivated by political vendetta but many politicians have been subjected to such political vendetta. Congress as well is having a long history of subjecting its political rivals to political vengeance. Now, it is not only the Gandhi family but many leaders like Mr. Azam Khan, a senior leader of the Samajwadi Party who was also disqualified from UP Legislative Assembly after being convicted in a hate speech case. His son Abdullah Azam Khan was also disqualified as an MLA from the Suar constituency after being convicted along with his father in a 15-year-old case for staging a dharna.

In 2006, Jaya Bachchan, a member of the Samajwadi Party, was disqualified as a Rajya Sabha member after it was found that she held an office of profit as the Chairperson of the Uttar Pradesh Film Development Council.

In 2013, Lalu Prasad Yadav, a member of the Rashtriya Janata Dal, was disqualified as a Member of Parliament (MP) after he was convicted in a corruption case related to the fodder scam.

In 2014, Suresh Kalmadi, a member of the Indian National Congress, was disqualified as an MP after he was arrested and charged in the Commonwealth Games scam.

In 2011, Jagan Mohan Reddy, the son of former Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y. S. Rajasekhara Reddy, was disqualified as an MP after he resigned from the Congress party and started his political party.

In 2020, Sharad Yadav, a former MP and founder of the Loktantrik Janata Dal, was disqualified as a Rajya Sabha member after he joined the Rashtriya Janata Dal.

This list, however, goes on. The disqualification contemplated under the said RP Act, 1951 is for the period of 6 years from the date of release of a such convict but is subject to any order of grant of stay.

However, a PIL has been filed by a Kerala-based activist against the ‘automatic disqualification’ of elected representatives under the RP Act, 1951. Aabha Muralidharan, the petitioner has sought a declaration of the Hon’ble SC that ‘automatic disqualification’ is ‘ultra vires’ to the Constitution of India and hence ‘illegal’.

The Author is currently enrolled as student of law at the Aligarh Muslim University