KAWARTHA LAKES-Liz Mar has always thought of herself as a city girl. That is until about five years ago when she and her family moved to a hobby farm in Pontypool and their lifestyle completely changed.

“It all started when we moved to Pontypool,” Mar told Kawartha 411 News “I’m from the city, I’m a city girl, but when we moved to Pontypool and being outside in nature, I loved it.”

Mar worked as a graphic designer for a hospital in Toronto and spent weekends shopping or in the backyard with friends.

“I find since moving here we watch less TV because we are outside a lot more. It has completely changed our lifestyle. We are playing in nature every day, it’s what our life has become.”

And that’s where the inspiration for her new outdoor-inspired clothing line came from.

P. I.N.E. Clothing Co or Play In Nature Everyday is the result of two years of work.

“Play in nature every day is an acronym for pine, the white pine is the provincial tree for Ontario, and that works so well together.” Mar explains “When I first thought of this I initially wanted to start it for the people of Pontypool because we are such a tight-knit community. The culture here is so great everybody looks out for each other but I recognized that nature goes far beyond Pontypool. I just want everybody to feel the same way I feel and appreciate nature in their own way.”

Mar initially did a sample run with an old logo and didn’t like it. Once she settled on the pine tree logo she ordered a number of different product samples.

“I didn’t want to sell a product I wouldn’t want to buy myself.” Mar says “The hoddies are lined, it has a cotton lining to keep it soft and luxurious, all the graphics are flock print, they are soft like the roots logo and I heat press them myself to make sure each one is up to my standards.”

Flock printing is what gives a logo a 3D, furry finish.

The line currently consists of shirts and hoodies all available, made to order, on her Etsy shop at http://pineclothingco.etsy.com/  Production time is 5-10 days.

She hopes the line inspires people to explore nature and spread the word.

“People should explore nature, share the message, it’s free and to appreciate the nature that’s all around us. I think we take it for granted and we need to appreciate it.”