A four-year-old girl has died after a van hit her as she walked on the pavement with her family. Cordelia Kuether tragically lost her life after a road traffic collision in the city of Sheboygan, Wisconsin. According to reports, Cordelia stopped while walking to pet a dog.

As this happened, a van and a pickup truck crashed, causing the van to veer in the young girl's direction. The vehicle fatally hit Cordelia. Another child, understood to be Cordelia's two-year-old younger sister, was injured but survived the incident.Their mother was a witness to the crash, as the three were "simply out for a walk in a quiet neighborhood...enjoying the recent nice weather".The Sheboygan Police Department (SPD) has said that the van and truck came together at an intersection.They add that the crash was caused by a 23-year-old driver who did not see a 76-year-old driver coming down a side street.

Investigators also believe the 23-year-old driver may have failed to see the other vehicle because of a parked car on the side of the road. A statement from the Sheboygan Police Department said: "On April 12, 2023 around 5pm the Sheboygan Police Department and Sheboygan Fire Department responded to a two-vehicle crash with injuries at the intersection of N. 21st Street and Saemann Avenue in the City of Sheboygan."A pick-up truck operating southbound on N. 21st Street collided with a vehicle that was eastbound on Saemann Avenue."As a result of the crash, an involved vehicle left the roadway and struck a group of pedestrians."Among the pedestrians struck was a four-year-old girl that sustained a fatal injury and tragically lost her life. Three other individuals were transported to local hospitals for treatment of minor injuries."The drivers of both vehicles remained on scene and are cooperating with the investigation. The investigation is ongoing."The Sheboygan Police Department would like to extend our thoughts and prayers to all involved in this tragic incident."A GoFundMe page has been made to pay for Cordelia's funeral costs. Over $38,000 (£30,500) has been raised.READ MORE:

Cat drags alligator head out of Wisconsin lake [INSIGHT]

Plane carrying more than 50 rescue dogs crashes onto golf course [ANALYSIS]

Nurse faces up to 92 years 'for amputating man's foot' [INSIGHT]

Cordelia's auntie, Krista Jones, said on the page: "Yesterday evening my Nephew, Devon Kuether, lost his four-year-old daughter, Cordelia, in a tragic, unforeseen and unfortunate accident in Sheboygan last night."No parent should ever have to face the death of one of their children. Cordelia, her mother Ezra and her younger sister Lily were simply out for a walk in a quiet neighborhood in town enjoying the recent nice weather when tragedy hit them out of nowhere."The incident is under investigation so no further details will be shared at this time aside from what is made public on the Sheboygan Police Departments Public information portals."The parents are requesting this Gofundme to help cover the cost of Funeral expenses and medical expenses which they do not have the funds for at this time. All Funds will go directly to the parents, Devon and Ezra."The police investigation is ongoing and no arrests have been made at the time of writing.