A mum has been praised for her compassion and chosen as one of the winners of our Local Heroes competition.

Jean and Edward Devlin met on holiday in Malta - both had been in previous long term relationships in which they both had children, but they "clicked" upon their first meeting and later, in 2004, the couple were married.

Jean and Edward would spend over a dozen years together, and as the end of Edward's life drew near Jean cared for him, "making him comfortable" and reminiscing about their beautiful life together. And before he died in 2017, she promised she would do all she could to care for and support his three children, as well as her own.

READ MORE: Mum's message after she survives 'grim' cancer diagnosis

Jean, who is 70, has now been chosen as a winner of our Local Heroes competition with Marco Pierre White Steakhouse Bar & Grill and Hotel Indigo after being nominated by step-daughter Marie for her compassion and for how she helped her family deal with the loss of their dad.

In her nomination Marie called Jean a "very caring person" who has not only helped care for the family through bereavement but for others too, including her neighbours who she goes shopping for and takes to medical appointments when needed. Marie said whenever she or others need help, "without hesitation [Jean] gets in her car straight away."

In her nomination, Marie said: "As for the family she helped us digest this horrible situation by talking and remembering all our special times we had together. Since then Jean continues to think of others.

"Her family and friends all think she deserves this lovely treat for all her kindness."

Jean was chosen as a winner of our competition and won a family meal for four in the Marco Pierre White Steakhouse Bar & Grill with access to a ride on the local Mersey Ferry. She said she plans to take her daughter and two grandchildren with her.

Jean told the ECHO: "[Edward] was quite a few years older than me and he was diagnosed with prostate cancer. I promised him I'd love and care for his children as much as I could and I did.

"I have such a lovely relationship with them. I was just brought up that way. I'm lucky to have such a nice family.

"I couldn't believe it, I couldn't believe that she thought of me in that special way she does. Even though It was both our second marriages we're still very close - my children and his children. Unfortunately my son died during the pandemic.

"I think I'll take my daughter and two grandchildren who she lives alone with. It'll be nice to take them I think. I'm just overwhelmed with it and I can't believe that someone would nominate me."

Get all the latest Eurovision 2023 news straight to your inbox

Gang behind secret £1million amphetamine lab used Costco car park for dodgy dealings

Drug dealer's luxury life of Louis Vuitton bags and holidays exposed by 'pure chance'

Dad punched after his Aintree stag do now fighting for life in coma

Gang behind secret £1million amphetamine lab used Costco car park for dodgy dealings

Loose Women announce first live tour with a date in Liverpool