On April 14, Brooke Shields took a trip down memory lane when she turned to Instagram to celebrate her daughter, Grier Hammond Henchy, on her 17th birthday. The teenager not only looks like her mother but also follows in her footsteps.

In honor of Grier's birthday, Brooke shared a series of throwback pictures and videos of her little girl and snaps of Grier all grown up. "Happy 17th Birthday, Grier!!! I love you so much, and I'm so proud to be your mom. You may be growing up, but you will always be my baby," Brooke captioned the post, which received over 40 000 likes at the time of writing.

In the comments section, fans sent congratulatory messages Grier's way and couldn't help but notice how much she looked like her famous parents. "Happy birthday to Grier. She's the perfect mix of her parents; her father's eyes and hair, and your nose, lips, (and) face shape," one person shared, and another wrote, "Omg. She is only 17. Such a goddess like her mommy."

"Stunningly gorgeous. Like mother, like daughter. Happy birthday!!" a fan commented, and a third typed, "I admire your kindness and elegance... beautiful daughter as you, happy birthday to her (sic)!!!" Another user shared, "Oh, that sweet baby Grier!... I can't take it. Happy 17th birthday to your baby girl!" A fifth added, "The apple doesn't fall too far from the three. Happy Birthday!!"

Aside from having an actress and model for a mother, Grier's father, Chris Henchy, is a producer and writer known for "Land of the Lost," "The Other Guys," and "The Campaign." However, she followed in her mother's footsteps and pursued a career as a model.

In May 2022, Grier was featured in a Victoria's Secret campaign alongside her famous mom, who said. "To be able to shoot this campaign with my daughter and to showcase the beauty of our relationship was a dream come true."

The model and actress also shared that her youngest daughter is already looking at colleges. "It's funny, I said to my daughter, I said 'I've spent basically 18 years telling you what to do, telling you how to be ... so now I have to really allow you to be trusted," Brooke Shields shared.

In 2023, Grier has kept busy attending multiple red-carpet events with her parents. On March 29, she attended the premiere of her mother's documentary, "Pretty Baby: Brooke Shields," in New York before appearing with her mom and dad at the  New York Academy of Art Tribeca Ball in April. Grier and her mother also recently stepped out in eye-catching outfits at the opening of the Centurion New York.