Show key events onlyPlease turn on JavaScript to use this feature

Solid performance and a well-deserved win. The only criticism is that it should have been a higher score. [On the injuries] We have more than 11 players, and you wouldn’t say bringing in Christian Eriksen is a disadvantage. He played a brilliant game.

Both full-backs are important [in creating space for Eriksen and Bruno Fernandes]: to come inside, to go outside, the co-operation. I think we attracted them and created space at the right moments; the timing was good to pass the ball in the central arreas.

[On the first goal] It was a great action from Anthony Martial. He’s an incredibly good player – he can link up, he keeps the ball, his pressing is good and he can finish. But we need more goalscorers and I’m happy with Antony scoring a goal and giving an assist. He didn’t start the game well – twice he had to make a different decision and cut the ball back to Christian Eriksen – but after he came into the game and he was a constant threat.

He’s definitely making progress. He missed chances against Everton so I’m happy for him today, and he might have scored another if Aaron Wan-Bissaka hadn’t blocked his shot!

[Why did you play Harry Maguire on the right of the centre-backs? He usually plays on the left when he’s alongside Lindelof?] Not with me. Not this season. The angles are not good if Harry is playing on the left side; it’s difficult for him. Also, defending in wide areas on his left foot. I think Harry is very good on the right, and Victor can use both feet. He did a brilliant job on [Brennan] Johnson.

[Are you prioritising any particular competition?] We approach it game by game. What else can we do? We are United, we have to win every game; that has to be the approach. I know it will not always work out, and if you play so many games sometimes you get a setback. Today was a really focussed performance, and that’s what you need. At this stage of the season every game is a final because every time is battling for something.

We know it’s tough to play here. They can be dangerous on the counter-attack and we dealt really well with that. It’s a good win. [On changing position just before kick-off] That doesn’t matter. The main thing is that the replacement did a really good job, that was Christian. We aren’t just 11 players and everyone has to be ready. We are one of the teams where the subs have a great impact during games with goals, assists and giving fresh legs.

It was an amazing save [from Navas]. I said to him that he only saved my shots today! I also missed a header in the first half, but the result is the most important thing for me. We want to be in the Champions League next season. We were calm inside the dressing room. Players get injured, this is football, but everybody is ready and we showed that today. It was special [to score his first Premier League goal], and it was an important moment too – at 2-0 we were more comfortable in the game. [On his celebratory handshake with Antony] Yeah, it’s our little thing. He played a fantastic game as well, his rewards are coming now.

Peep peep! Manchester United move up to third after an emphatic victory at the City Ground. Antony scored the first from close range and made the second for Diogo Dalot, who filled in at left-back and scored a very modern full-back’s goal. Antony was excellent, Christian Eriksen was even better and Bruno Fernandes was the best of the lot. It would have been a lot more but for Keylor Navas, who made a few good saves and one outrageous one from Fernandes.Forest had a good case for a penaly at 0-0, when the ball hit the arm of Harry Maguire. That aside, they can have no complaints. With a tough run-in ahead, they are in serious bother.

74 min: Chance for Forest! The corner is swung to the near post, where Felipe gets in front of Casemiro and de Gea, two yards out, but heads over on the stretch. He slaps the post in frustration. As Gary Neville says on Sky, he just got a bit too much on the ball.

56 min: WHAT A SAVE FROM NAVAS!!!! Fernandes takes a left-wing corner short to Eriksen, who eases it back to Fernandes on the left side of the area. He hits a vicious shot on the run that is touched onto the crossbar by Navas, leaping to his left. That is an outrageous save.

54 min “As a Liverpool fan, I’m supposed to hate everything United, but I have been impressed by EtH,” says Joe Pearson. “Including your sow’s ear/silk purse ability, he had the great sense and strength to send that petulant, overripe prima donna CR7 packing. That gets extra marks in my book.”I’d say the decision was straightforward, but the deft, diplomatic manner in which he handled it was really impressive.

52 min Williams’ flat cross brushes the head of Awoniyi, running away from goal, and Lodi can’t keep it in play on the far side of the area. Awoniyi has been Forest’s biggest threat by a distance, which may or may not mean that a Brennan Johnson equaliser is imminent.

50 min Sancho, so good in tight spaces when he’s on song, plays a give-and-go with Fernandes in the area and hits a low cross that deflects right across the six-yard box. Antony was again on his heels. The resulting corner is played short to Antony on the right edge of the area, and he whips a trademark curler just past the top corner on the far side. Decent effort.Jadon Sancho is causing all sorts of problems for Nottingham Forest. Photograph: Ash Donelon/Manchester United/Getty Images