AceShowbiz -

Drake didn't receive the best compliments he might have expected with his latest thirst trap. The Canadian superstar has treated his Instagram followers to a new shirtless snap of himself only to get roasted online.

On Tuesday, April 18, the 36-year-old took to his Story to post the steamy shot. In the image, he wore nothing but a piece of towel around his waist as he got ready for an ice bath. "5 min cold plunge for the soul," he wrote over the picture.

Drake faced sideways in the photo, giving a glimpse of his ripped abs as he put his tattooed body on display. However, many social media users were not impressed with the image, as some called him "corny" and other claimed the photo only fueled speculation that the hip-hop star got liposuction.

Married Chance The Rapper Defended by Model He's 'Inappropriately' Dancing With After Criticism

"Bro almost 40 doing this," someone commented after Hollywood Unlocked reposted Drizzy's Story. Another said they would give the "In My Feelings" hitmaker a "pass," because, "He's not my type. Too girly…"

"He is the corniest 'rapper' I've ever seen and that includes [Flavor Flav]," a third user slammed the Grammy Award-winning artist, while someone else similarly said of the rapper, "Corny a** Aubreisha."

Accusing Drake of going under the knife to get his abs, someone wrote, "Got that lipo before summer!!! We see you sis!!!" Another retorted, "U tellin me he aint get work done ?" Another critic said, "Ik a 360 lipo and ab etch when I see one," as another claimed, "Oh God with the lips poked out. I can't."

Drake was previously accused of getting liposuction after showing off his ripped physique in a gym video posted back in April 2021. "Looks like he has a touch up. Lol," one alleged. Another remarked, "Abs look like he got lipo." A third critic said at the time, "Drake had the Lipo and Tummy Tuck," while someone claimed that a knee injury, which he revealed earlier that year, was probably only his excuse while he was actually recovering from the cosmetic surgery.