Skehans has been named the best pub in London

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Serve the food you really want to eat by signing up for our tips and recipes and never be bored by your cooking again

Skehans has been named the best pub in London

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Serve the food you really want to eat by signing up for our tips and recipes and never be bored by your cooking again

A pub owned by an Irishman has been crowned the best in London by prestigious hospitality guide Time Out.

Skehans Free House, which is owned by Limerick native Bryan Fitzsimons, was described as “a place of legend” by the global hospitality company.

Based in Nunhead, Skehans is one of the few remaining independent, family run pubs in South London and is described as 'a fun, friendly neighbourhood pub that's as popular with Nunhead locals and dedicated drinkers as it is art school students and the Goldsmiths crowd.'

READ MORE - Here are the 8 finalists for Pub of the Year 2023

RED MORE - List of the Dublin pubs and restaurants that have closed in past few weeks

To find the best pub in London, Time Out managed to whittle the capital's 3,500 pubs down to their favourite 50, with Skehan's coming in at no. 1.

In their summary, the competition judges stated: “This pub is as fun as it is friendly. It’s a family-run and independent, a rarity in London.

“It attracts everyone from pensioners to local bands, chic fashion students and troupes of cheerful lads. There’s karaoke, folk-music nights and terrific Thai food too. What more could you want? Perfect Guinness? Well, this a proper Irish pub, so you’re in luck.”

Time Out have previously praised Skehans in a list of London’s best Irish pubs and bars, writing: "Karaoke, Irish trad music nights, quizzes, a perpetually popular pool table and great Thai food make it one of the best boozers for miles around".

Speaking to the Irish Post, pub owner Bryan Fitzsimons said that his goal in running the business is to match the high standards set by pubs in Ireland.

"We don't think we are doing anything different than any other pub back in Ireland, that's how high the standard is back home, especially Limerick," he said.

Skehan’s boasts a bar kitted out with a pool table, darts, live music on select nights of the week (as well as a quiz night every Thursday). The pub also caters to sports fans, showing various football, golf, GAA, rugby, and cricket on their two screens.

Skehan’s offers customers a chance to get some grub at their Thai restaurant, Chai Garden, throughout the week. Their menu includes traditional food such as Chicken satay, Paper prawns, Tom Yam Koong, and Drunken Noodles.

On Tuesday between 5pm and 9.30pm, the pub puts on its own burger night, serving up Skehanmacs using produce from local butchers. And then on Sunday’s, there’s freshly prepped roast dinners with all the traditional fixings.

READ NEXT - Moore Street Market Dublin set to host new weekly markets featuring over 100 days of themed events

READ NEXT - Ireland's best takeaways: The country's top Chinese, Indian, pizza, burger and more revealed at the Just Eat Awards

READ NEXT - Winners announced at Bar of the Year Awards 2022 as Dublin poitín and cocktail bar takes top prize