Govt Giving Loan of Rs 1 Lakh Under PM Mudra Yojana? PIB Fact Check Debunks Fake Claim

Nagaland State Lottery Result Today 6 PM Live, Dear Hill Wednesday Lottery Sambad Result of 19.04.2023, Watch Live Lucky Draw Winners List

Teacher Records Sex Videos Inside UK Schools! Wales Woman Films XXX Clips of Herself Masturbating With Vibrator in School Classroom and Toilet, Probe On

Kiara has already proved that she can carry off any outfit and this sizzling look of her proves that if looking hot is art is the Picasso of it.

When it comes to fashion, Kiara Advani has never failed to deliver her best foot forward. She is always aware of her fashion statements and enjoys stepping out in a variety of eye-catching outfits and changing things up every time, whether it is with comfy athleisure looks or unexpected, sexy pantsuits.  This time the B-town diva didn't disappoint her audience. In this video she is wearing a blue velvet lehenga and paired it with a deep v-neckline blue velvet blouse along with a gold-toned crystal embellished border. To complete the regal outfit it was teamed up with a heavy velvet dupatta with gold-toned work and a striking gold border. Kiara Advani's Maxi Dresses That Are Perfect for Summers!.

Bollywood

Diet Sabya's Indian 'Barbie' Posters Featuring Deepika Padukone, Priyanka Chopra and More Are Witty and Ah-Mazing (View Pics)

Bollywood

Satyaprem Ki Katha Leaked: Kartik Aaryan and Kiara Advani Spotted Doing Saat Phere on Set in This New Video – Watch

South

Ram Charan Celebrates His Birthday on RC15 Sets With Kiara Advani, Shankar Shanmugham, Dil Raju and Others (View Pics)

Teacher Records Sex Videos Inside UK Schools! Wales Woman Films XXX Clips of Herself Masturbating With Vibrator in School Classroom and Toilet, Probe OnHeatwave in April in Asian History: Severe Heatwave Causes Deaths, School Closures in India, Record-Breaking Temperatures in ChinaChandra Grahan 2023 Date and Time: All You Need to Know About Forthcoming Penumbral Lunar Eclipse EventDelhi Shocker: Man Bludgeoned to Death by Teenager for Forcing ‘Sex’, Body Found With Head Injuries on Footpath Behind Red FortInter Milan vs Benfica, UEFA Champions League 2022-23 Free Live Streaming Online: How To Watch UCL Quarterfinal Match Live Telecast on TV & Football Score Updates in IST?			Read More

Mumbai Water Cut News Update: Good News for Mumbaikars! BMC Rolls Back 15% Water Cut Decision, Normal Supply of Water To Begin From April 23Peacock Attacks Two Persons Stealing Eggs From Its Nest, Rare Retaliation Video of Blue Bird Goes ViralMadhya Pradesh Train Collision: Two Goods Trains Collide With Each Other Near Singhpur Railway Station in Shahdol; Motormen Injured, Two Railway Workers Feared Trapped (See Pics)Salary Hike for Cognizant Employees: IT Giant Announces Appraisal, Raises Pay of Over 3 Lakh Workers in Third Increase in Last 18 MonthsDisney Layoffs 2023: Entertainment Giant Planning Another Round of Sackings, To Eliminate Thousands of Jobs This Month, Say Reports

Today's Trends

Benadryl TikTok Challenge: What Is the Viral Benadryl Challenge? Second Death Due to Dangerous Trend As Johnson & Johnson Issues Statement Over Dangers of Online Challenge

Amid Fear of Layoffs, Bain Offering New Recruits USD 20,000 To Become Yoga Instructors, Go on Safari in Bid To Delay Their Start Dates: Report

Salary Hike for Cognizant Employees: IT Giant Announces Appraisal, Raises Pay of Over 3 Lakh Workers in Third Increase in Last 18 Months

Disney Layoffs 2023: Entertainment Giant Planning Another Round of Sackings, To Eliminate Thousands of Jobs This Month, Say Reports

Diet Sabya's Indian 'Barbie' Posters Featuring Deepika Padukone, Priyanka Chopra and More Are Witty and Ah-Mazing (View Pics)Satyaprem Ki Katha Leaked: Kartik Aaryan and Kiara Advani Spotted Doing Saat Phere on Set in This New Video – WatchRam Charan Celebrates His Birthday on RC15 Sets With Kiara Advani, Shankar Shanmugham, Dil Raju and Others (View Pics)