Scottsdale-based luxury home developer, Silver Sky Development, has announced the unanimous approval of its 12-lot luxury estate home site in Paradise Valley, Ariz., by the Town of Paradise Valley Council. Silver Sky, named in honor of the incredibly colorful sunsets viewed from its Mummy Mountain site, is a rare, pristine parcel home to 12 sprawling, ultra-custom estate homes.

“We are honored and delighted to receive the approval of the Paradise Valley Town Council,” said Gordon Berry, one of the Silver Sky founding partners. “We can’t wait to show the world the unparalleled and exclusive community we are presenting.”

Silver Sky also announces its highly anticipated architecture team. Known for their signature building styles and magnificent aesthetics are architects Stratton Andrews of Stratton Architects and Mark Candelaria of Candelaria Design Associates, who will each design showcase estate homes in Silver Sky.

These exceptional custom homes will maximize the outdoor living spaces to take advantage of the fantastic Arizona climate and views. Culinary aficionados will enjoy the functional, yet innovative, chef and prep kitchens, multiple entertaining areas, al fresco dining, lavish landscaping, and over-the-top bedrooms with opulent finishes. Wellness architecture is another focus, each home will include a state-of-the-art fitness center, spa, cold plunge and other health and beauty essentials. Guests will feel more than welcome with spacious, meticulously designed guest homes, attached and detached. For car enthusiasts and collectors, the homes will have an exceptionally spacious epic garage that will elevate car storage and display to new heights.

“We have selected the absolute, best-in-class team to bring our Silver Sky vision to life,” said Berry. “Mark and Stratton are both at the top of their field, and their work and commitment to excellence speaks volumes. Silver Sky’s custom homes will be extraordinary, unparalleled, and done with great attention to this rare, pristine parcel.”

“The designs they developed take the estate home experience to transcendent and unsurpassed levels, beyond what most of us have ever seen or dreamed of. They have anticipated buyer wants and desires before the buyers even realize them,” Berry added. “We can’t wait to share their vision with a few discerning buyers.”

“To say that it’s an honor to design a signature home for Silver Sky is an understatement,” Candelaria said. “Rarely have I seen a parcel with such astonishing views, in an enclave setting and in one of the most desirable zip codes in the world.”

Andrews looks forward to collaborating with a premiere group of talent to help clients create beautiful homes. “Stratton Architects is eager to help Silver Sky’s ultra-affluent clientele through every step of the process,” he says. “The expansive parcels create an open canvas for an architect with endless design opportunities.”

As one of Arizona’s top landscape designers, Jeff Berghoff and his team bring true craftsmanship with cutting-edge execution to the community. “Our designs tell a story and it’s not about a fleeting moment, but about values and things that last,” says Berghoff.

Silver Sky Development is comprised of Gordon Berry, Heriberto Velasquez and Jeremy Takas, who have selected the founding partners at RETSY | Forbes Global Properties: Chris Morrison, Babbi Gabel, and Kirk Linehan, to handle real estate broker services.

Currently undergoing design are four showcase homes that will range from 7,500 square feet to 15,000 square feet. Pricing is anticipated to start from $11,250,000.

Silver Sky’s development team is committed to thoughtful environmental stewardship and sustainability, as well as features that are focused on water and energy conservation. Silver Sky is destined to be the most celebrated place to live in Paradise Valley. The 17-acre community was unanimously approved by the Town Council.