Artificial intelligence is changing how people do business, so business leaders must adapt to the technology. Specifically, they must find ways to improve their operations, products, and services with AI. Fortunately, ChatGPT is free, allowing small businesses to keep up. All you need is time and patience to understand ChatGPT business applications.

ChatGPT can improve your company in numerous ways. For example, the AI bot can answer basic customer inquiries and complaints so that your agents can focus on more important concerns. Also, it could entice more potential customers by generating social media and online marketing content.

This article will discuss 10 business uses of ChatGPT, including the ones mentioned above. Note that these tips work with GPT-4, the latest version at the time of writing. Also, you need an OpenAI account to use ChatGPT.

Modern businesses must have an online presence to ensure clients can immediately find their products and services. They build that presence by posting online content regularly, such as blogs and social media content.

One of the most common ChatGPT business applications is generating online content. It produces a rough draft for any project so that content writers can start immediately.

Meanwhile, social media managers can ask ChatGPT to create a social media post instead of making one from scratch. As a result, these methods could potentially double or triple their productivity.

Note that you should not copy and paste content from ChatGPT verbatim because it sometimes includes content from copyrighted sources. Consequently, you may get flagged for plagiarism.

Search engines like Google also crack down on AI-generated content. If you post too many articles made with AI, it may flag your pages as spam.

Both outcomes may ruin your online reputation and visibility. Still, ChatGPT can make any marketing team more efficient if used correctly.

Have you ever noticed small text bubbles appearing at the bottom right of some websites? That is an online chatbot, which online platforms have used for years.

It is enough for basic customer concerns, such as “When are your operating hours?” However, it usually cannot answer more complicated inquiries, like “Is this product okay for vegans?”

Nowadays, more and more businesses integrate ChatGPT into their conventional chatbots. As a result, they can answer more complex questions.

More importantly, it lets your call center agents focus on more serious issues. Of course, your live agents should be ready to handle queries the chatbot cannot handle.

Leads refer to actions indicating a potential customer will likely pay for a product or service. For example, let us say you subscribed to a company newsletter.

Your subscription requires sensitive information, such as your name and address. More importantly, it tells the company you are interested in its wares.

Consequently, the company will view you as a sales lead. Then, it will ask its sales agents to convince you to buy something.

You may also like: The Top 10 Applications Of ChatGPT

Lead generation is a trending business ChatGPT application, significantly boosting its efficiency. For example, you could create an automated lead sequence using the AI bot.

It will automatically store user data and categorize them according to your sales funnel. As a result, you can move your customers down your sales funnel sooner.

Your customers are on social media, so you should be there too. Other businesses know this trend, so they regularly post on their Facebook and Twitter pages.

Constant posts maintain an online presence and boost customer engagement. More importantly, they hire social media managers to ensure someone will handle customer concerns.

Like content writing, posting on social media takes time that a company may allocate to more important matters. Consequently, it is one of the most common ChatGPT business applications.

You can ask the AI bot to write your social media message, helping you post more content sooner. Moreover, you can optimize the bot to reflect your company image.

For example, you can ask the bot to use a professional tone when writing your post. Again, you must check AI-generated content for grammatical errors or signs of plagiarism before publishing.

All businesses aim to meet customers’ needs and market products and services accordingly. Nowadays, they go above and beyond by matching their messages with each client.

That becomes more difficult and time-consuming as you gain more customers. Fortunately, ChatGPT can help by automatically creating content based on customer information.

For example, you can ask ChatGPT to take note of how many people buy constantly from you. Next, it can send email newsletters about your latest promos so that they keep buying.

Then, your marketing and sales teams may move subscribers further into your sales funnel. Other companies take it a step further, such as My AI.

Snap used ChatGPT API to create an AI companion for users. It can chat with users so that the messaging app can establish a deeper personal connection with customers.

We’ve established that the ChatGPT business applications enable you to make personalized content en masse quickly. Combine these benefits, and you can facilitate updating your website.

For example, you can post new content for your blog section faster than ever. As a result, new and existing customers will see your company still engages with them.

If you need a new website, ChatGPT can also assist you. Its latest large language model, GPT -4, can create working websites from a rough sketch.

An OpenAI researcher demonstrated its multimodal function by asking the AI bot to create a website based on his napkin drawing. In response, it produced functioning code based on the crude illustration.

The new ChatGPT can save and analyze 20,000 words, allowing it to summarize long texts. Also, it can tell you information based on those words.

For example, let us say your employees provided a long marketing report, and you need to see your year-on-year sales from 2021 to 2022.

You may also like: The Top 10 Ways To Make Money With ChatGPT

You may not have enough time to read it entirely if you’re busy. Instead, you may ask ChatGPT to provide your year-on-year sales from 2021 to 2022.

This ChatGPT business application may come in handy for meetings. The AI bot can summarize a transcription of an online meeting so that you can send highlights to employees immediately.

The internet lets your company reach people outside your country. As a result, a small business could quickly grow with online services.

However, you must breach the language barrier by translating your content. Otherwise, people may not understand your products and services.

Fortunately, ChatGPT can understand 26 languages like South Korean and Ukrainian. It could translate your content into English.

Then, you can ask ChatGPT to check its results for grammatical errors. If it finds any, you may ask the bot to correct them. Also, you can ask the AI chat program to rewrite it for you.

As mentioned, ChatGPT can create personalized content for potential customers. As a result, you quickly optimize your content for other countries faster than ever.

Business ChatGPT applications aren’t limited to marketing. The AI bot can help you sift through piles of information for various projects.

Companies usually hire database specialists to make that process more efficient. However, small businesses may not be able to afford their services.

Also, these experts need time to create queries. Fortunately, ChatGPT can provide results in seconds, thanks to GPT-4’s ability to store and understand thousands of words.

Alex Jenkins, director of the WA Data Science Innovation Hub, said, “ChatGPT can easily craft that query for you and return the results from your hospital’s database systems,” he says. “The time savings will be significant,” Jenkins added.

ChatGPT can write code for websites, but it can program for other applications. It cannot create complicated systems by itself but can make programming more efficient.

Muddu Sudhakar, the CEO of AI company Aisera, believes ChatGPT is promising for code writing. He said, “While developers, programmers, and software engineers can spend hours writing code for applications….”

“…using ChatGPT, anyone can write a description asking to automate a process, and they will receive a code,” he explains. “This process of prompt-based automation eliminates the need to work with complex code and allows teams to easily update or include new features, Sudhakar added.

You may also like: Google Search AI Features Coming Soon

OpenAI released ChatGPT APIs and plugins to boost business ChatGPT applications. As a result, it opens more possibilities and opportunities for companies.

Artificial intelligence is changing daily life, especially for companies. As a result, business leaders must understand how to take advantage of this digital trend.

Its business ChatGPT applications include streamlining databases and improving social media management. ChatGPT is free so that you can create new products and services.

Do you want to unlock the possibilities of artificial intelligence? Keep yourself up-to-date with the latest trends by following Inquirer Tech.

ChatGPT lets everyone use artificial intelligence for free, so businesses must adapt. Using this technology, they must find ways to improve their operations, products, and services using this technology. Fortunately, that means more efficiency and productivity for your business. For example, it could improve customer service by answering complicated customer queries.

You could make money from ChatGPT by monetizing a blog with online art. Also, you can ask ChatGPT to create prompts for text-to-image apps like Midjourney to generate art you can sell. You may use its text generation ability to build a YouTube career or boost your online presence with more social media posts.

Snapchat company Snap uses ChatGPT to provide an AI companion to its users called My AI. It can converse with users while ensuring it does not breach the company’s policies. Meanwhile, another person named Jackson Greathouse Fall asked ChatGPT for a business idea. As a result, he owns a $25,000 company called Green Gadget Guru.