Erik ten Hag would reportedly ‘love’ Manchester United to sign Marcel Sabitzer this summer but Bayern Munich are expected to be ‘bullish’ in negotiations.

Sabitzer was signed on loan during the winter transfer window after it was confirmed that Christian Eriksen was going to be out of action for a couple of months.

This has proven to be an astute bit of business from Man Utd which was completed in an uncharacteristically speedy fashion before the transfer window closed.

The 29-year-old was only a bit-part player for Bayern Munich but he has grabbed three goals and one assist in 13 appearances for Man Utd.

United’s loan deal does not include a buy option so they will have to negotiate with Bayern Munich with the view to agreeing on a fee.

Journalist Ben Jacobs thinks Man Utd’s summer budget will be dependent on two major factors.

‘Erik ten Hag would love to keep the Austrian and in doing so strengthen his midfield, even though his number one priority is to land a traditional forward, with Harry Kane and Victor Osimhen two names on at this stage quite a ‘longlist’ of strikers,’ Jacobs wrote for Caught Offside.

‘A lot of how Manchester United move, and with how much financial muscle, will depend on securing Champions League football, which they are on course to do, and whether a new outright owner comes in. The April 28 final-offer deadline is key to understanding the Glazers true intentions.’

Jacobs also believes Bayern Munich ‘expect around £25m’ for Sabitzer this summer but Man Utd ‘see this as too high’.

‘Bayern are happy to let Sabitzer leave but having seen his form at Old Trafford expect around £25m. Manchester United see this as too high for the 29-year-old, but he’s under contract at Bayern until 2025 which allows Bayern to be a bit more bullish with negotiations,’ Jacobs added.

‘There is perhaps a bit of gamesmanship at play. Sabitzer was struggling for minutes at Bayern prior to his loan and now suddenly the German champions want almost twice what they paid Leipzig for him in 2021.

‘Sabitzer’s agent Roger Wittmann has made it clear his client is happy in Manchester. There is a willingness to make the move permanent, so it’s really going to hinge on finances.

‘From what I understand Manchester United don’t want to overpay, especially with other targets requiring allocated budget, but Sabitzer is nonetheless a player they’d love to keep.

‘The next step is Manchester United understanding whether the price for Sabitzer will come down. But Tuchel’s arrival hasn’t prevented or complicated a transfer. It will just come down to price.’