Luisa Zissman exhibited her washboard abs as she took to Instagram on Easter Monday.

The former Apprentice contestant, 35, displayed the fruits of her labour while posing in a pink bandeau for a stunning selfie.

She ran a hand through her dark blonde tresses and framed her face with a pair of oversized black sunglasses.

In her caption, the Celebrity Big Brother star wrote: 'Happy Monday. How are you spending yours? ❤️.'

Luisa slipped into a yellow bikini as she visited a farm yard during her sun-soaked Thailand getaway on Saturday.

She looked sensational in the skimpy two piece as she posed for a slew of fun snaps with a drove of pigs.

The swimsuit boasted a bandeau top and high-cut bottoms and perfectly showcased her svelte figure.

Shielding her eyes behind oversized shades, Luisa wore her caramel tresses -ironically- in pigtails as she got down and dirty in the mud.

Writing: 'There is a reason the expression “as happy as a pig in s***” exists'.

'Today, I experienced the expression in real life & I can confirm when rolling around with with these guys I really was as happy as a pig in s***'.

Last year Luisa  revealed she has African heritage after finding old photographs of her great-granddad and other family members.

She also told of how she believes she is related to former president of South Africa, Nelson Mandela.

Speaking in her recent podcast episode with co-host Anna Williamson, the reality TV star explained how people 'wouldn't believe' her if they didn't see photographs to prove it - so later shared photos of her late family member on Instagram.

Talking on the topic of family traditions, Luisa brings up her 'affinity' to Nelson Mandela on the LuAnna podcast.

'Did we talk about my black granddad on the pod? We need to get the pictures up or people will not believe me,' she told co-host Anna Williamson.

'We had family over right and the old pics came out - I think I might have realised my affinity to Nelson. I do believe I am related to Nelson Mandela.

'Because when we saw the picture of my great granddad he was black.

'We actually don't know where in Africa he was from, all we know is that he was African. He was maybe West African but we don't know. How do I find out?

'I'd like to think that I'm related to Nelson Mandela.

She added that the man she is referencing in the picture is the father to her grandmother, whose mother was Italian.

Luisa adds: 'She even looks black though, doesn't she?'

'Now, his oldest son is the only one alive out of the four kids,' Luisa explained.

'My Nonna [grandma] has died, my mum's two uncles died and there's only one left - and he's old and started to get Alzheimer's.

'There was also a suspicion that my great granddad was a spy... now that my great uncle Hector is regressing, he keeps talking about how the fact he would have to go through the tunnels with packages and meet soldiers in Germany.'

She later took to Instagram to show her 625,000 followers exactly what she was referring to in the episode.

Writing in a caption to two snaps showing her granddad and other late family members, Luisa said: 'Hey guys if you listen to LuAnna: The Podcast I know I promised pics of my great grandad.

'Here you go, the little girl in the pics is my Nonna (Italian for grandma) so my mums mum. The boys are her brothers.

'The eldest boy (Uncle Hector) is the only remaining sibling alive (out of 4) ❤️ told y'all I was African and you didn't believe me.'

Luisa's revelations come not long after she was slammed by Ulrika Jonsson for branding NHS workers planning to strike as 'cruel' and said staff should never have entered the profession if they were concerned about salaries.

She blasted the National Health Service staff, calling them 'irresponsible', 'cruel' and 'jumped up t****'.

Writing in her column for The Sun, Ulrika said Luisa's comments were 'heartless' as she praised nurses for the work they do.

She wrote: 'Zissman's comments about nurses are not only extraordinarily heartless but show an ignorance beyond reproach.

'Sometimes you have to wonder if some people aren't entirely bereft of intelligence and empathy.'

Ulrika said being a nurse required 'dedication' and no one who chooses it as a career is doing so for the money.

While she doesn't like the planned strike, Ulrika said she likes even less that 'accountants at the top' have six-figure salaries while those at the bottom 'have their backs up against the wall'.

Ulrika added: 'She won't care what I or anyone else thinks about her comments — which is why, thank the Lord, there will never be a Nurse Zissman.'