We’re sorry, this feature is currently unavailable. We’re working to restore it. Please try again later.

Skip to sections navigationSkip to contentSkip to footer

, register or subscribe to save articles for later. Add articles to your saved list and come back to them any time.Plans to build Perth’s first high-rise primary school have been revealed, with the Education Department revealing it is hoping to build on a carpark in East Perth.The City of Perth carpark, opposite Queens Gardens and near the WACA grounds, has been identified as an ideal site, close to amenities and easily accessible with public transport.An artist’s impression of the new multistorey primary school announced for East Perth. The school will aim to take on 800 students from Northbridge, Perth and East Perth and is scheduled to open in 2028.City of Perth Mayor Basil Zempilas said the city would do their due diligence to assess the proposal, but that it was widely supportive of the move, which he said it had long championed for.“There is no doubt we have seen an explosion in the residential population in East Perth and Claisebrook over the past decade, mostly young families,” he said.“At the moment these families are sending their children to Highgate Primary School, but it is now bursting at the seams. It is not fair on students or teachers.”The school will be built on land currently occupied by City of Perth parking. Zempilas said the proposed school would take up one-and-a-half of the three car parks located in the area.“Our leftover space is estimated to be worth about $27 million and we will consider what to do with it to best suit the needs of the community,” Zempilas said.“One of the options would be to build a high-rise car park to replace the spaces taken by the school, but we also want to lessen the reliance on motor vehicles.”Zempilas said he was hopeful more schools would be built in the city in future.Another artist’s impression of the school. “We have St George’s, whose new campus was just approved, we have Mercedes and Bob Hawke and the new ECU campus. Perth is slowly starting to transform in this space,” he said.“There is no doubt anymore that there is a demand and need for education in the city. This is the way of the future, the CBD is starting to look similar to other bigger cities across the world.”Lands Minister John Carey said that throughout this process, the Department of Education would continue work to address enrolment pressure at Highgate Primary School.“Options under investigation include double story modular buildings, working with council on shared user space at neighbouring ovals as well as utilising council carparking to free up space at the school,” he said.The Morning Edition newsletter is our guide to the day’s most important and interesting stories, analysis and insights. Sign up here., register or subscribe to save articles for later.Holly Thompson is the education and general news reporter for WAtoday.