Twitter users are going crazy after finding out that both media personality Andile Ncube’s “baby mamas” will appear on the second season of Young, Famous & African — set to release on 19 May.

ALSO READ: ‘Young, Famous & African’ returns: 5 bombshells from season one

Netflix announced the new faces joining the second season of Young, Famous & African — which includes South African media personality Bonang Mateba, Ghanaian-American rapper Fantana and former Big Brother Africa contestant Luis Munana from Namibia. Along with these big names are from model and socialite Sebabatso Mothibi and supermodel and actress, Rosette Ncwana.

Fans were quick to notice that Rosette and Sebabatso are the mothers of Andile Ncube’s children.

Andile has a daughter named Gabrielle with Rosette. According to Briefly, the pair had a messy break up but have put aside their differences to co-parents. Rosette later married businessman Lunga Ncwana in 2013. While Andile moved on and married Ayanda Thabethe. Andile and Ayanda split two years later. Rosette and Lunga split after six years of marriage.

Andile had his second child with Sebabatso. The pair started dating in 2019 and went public with their romance in 2020, during the COVID-19 pandemic. In 2020, they announced that they were expecting a child. They thereafter welcomed a son together and split soon after.

Sebabatso also has a child with ex-husband DJ Choice. The media personality was also romantically linked to Diamond Platnumz’ “baby mama” Zari The Boss Lady on Young, Famous & African. So, fans are eager to know how this season will play out.

ALSO READ: ‘Both dated AKA’: Tweeps on Nadia and Bonang on reality show

Young, Famous & African is returning for season two on netflix on 19 May.

The all-star cast of season one return to face a lot of unanswered questions like what happened between Diamond Platnumz, Andile Ncube and Zari Hassan after the chance encounter between the trio in Diamond’s home, and what is the status of everyone’s friendships after many arguments, loads of drama, and a pot stir or two from Khanyi Mbau and Nadia Nakai.

It is unclear when the second season was shot, but Nadia lost her boyfriend — slain rapper AKA on 10 February this year. So, fans are eager to know more.

ALSO READ: Heartbreaking! Lynn Forbes reveals AKA’s last words to her

In the teaser, the cast is seen enjoying themselves, flashing money and more. The teaser then cuts to Queen B’s bold entrance. Take a look…