A PROFESSIONAL make-up artist and content creator has revealed that she has found the best dupe of the iconic Charlotte Tilbury powder.

So if you are a beauty fan but aren’t keen on breaking the bank on pricey products, you’ll want to listen up, as according to this make-up whizz, you can nab an almost identical dupe for just 90p from Wilko.

Posting on TikTok under the username @nourrkhalill, Nourr, who is a pro make-up artist based in Orange County in California, US, described herself as the 'Queen of dupes'.

She revealed that for those that love the Charlotte Tilbury airbrush flawless finish setting powder, you’ll want to head down to Wilko to test out their affordable replica.

Sharing her clip with the caption ‘I'll always save ur money guuurl’, the influencer said: “Since I'm the Queen of dupes, I am not gonna let you pay 48 freaking dollars [£38] for this.

“As always, sis, I got your back and I got you a drugstore dupe for it.

“If you're new, I'm a make-up artist, my name is Nourr and I'm also a beauty content creator, always serving you the best dupes.

“Let's get into it. Drum roll please.

“It is the Essence brighten up banana powder.

“Oh, and for the price, reveal - $4.99 [£4]. So for $4.99 [£4] you even get more product than the Charlotte Tilbury - you're getting nine grams of product here, whereas Charlotte Tilbury, you're getting eight grams for quadruple the freaking price.

“It is unreal how much these powders work the same.

“It feels like velvet, I've never felt a drugstore powder that feels this soft.

“Essence is such an affordable brand - I love their mascara and it acts like high end as well, and same with this powder.

Although in the US, the Essence powder would cost you $4.99 [£4], in the UK, you can bag it for just 90p from the high-street chain Wilko, a whopping £37.10 cheaper than the expensive version from Charlotte Tilbury.

The clip was posted just three days ago, but it has clearly impressed many, as it has quickly racked up a whopping 505.6k views.

It has 43,000 likes, 213 comments and 419 shares.

Social media users were eager to try out the beauty dupe and many others revealed that they love the bargain buy.

One person said: “I’m gonna try this.”

Another added: “I need to try this.”

A third commented: “I have to agree! I love this one.”

Meanwhile, one beauty fan posted: “No lie I have this powder and I love it so I’m gonna buy more so y’all don’t make it viral yet.”

Whilst someone else noted: “They also have the bessssssst hydrating concealer!! Love Essence.”