WILMINGTON, Del. (AP) — Fox and Dominion Voting Systems have reached a $787 million settlement in the voting machine company’s defamation lawsuit. The agreement averts a trial in a case that exposed how the top-rated network chased viewers by promoting lies about the 2020 presidential election. Dominion lawyer Justin Nelson said the deal shows that truth matters and lies have consequences. Dominion had asked for $1.6 billion in arguing that Fox had damaged its reputation by helping peddle phony conspiracy theories about its equipment switching votes from former President Donald Trump to Democrat Joe Biden.

OTTAWA, Ontario (AP) — Some 155,000 federal workers, including 35,000 from Canada’s tax agency, have gone on strike in what their union is calling one of the largest strikes in the country’s history. The Public Service Alliance of Canada said the strike, which began after midnight EDT, was called after talks with the government failed to produce an agreement. Picket lines will be set up at more than 250 locations. The strike involving the Canada Revenue Agency comes as tax returns are due. Chris Aylward, the union’s national president, said the bargaining teams would remain at the table throughout the strike.

TOKYO (AP) — Asian shares are trading mixed as investors take a wait-and-see attitude stance of earnings reports and possible moves by central banks. Benchmarks fell in Tokyo, Hong Kong and Shanghai, but rose moderately in Sydney and Seoul. News that China’s economic growth accelerated in the latest quarter, to 4.5%, did not have much of an impact on share prices. While consumption and retail sales have grown, other indicators, such as industrial output and fixed-asset investments, were weaker and indicate an uneven recovery. On Wall Street, stock indexes closed little changed following a mixed set of earnings results from big companies. Worries remain about inflation, higher interest rates and a slowing economy.

NEW YORK (AP) — JPMorgan Chase & Co. CEO Jamie Dimon must undergo up to two days of questioning by lawyers handling lawsuits over whether the bank can be held liable in financier Jeffrey Epstein's sexual abuse of teenage girls and women. Judge Jed Rakoff on Tuesday ordered Dimon to choose days to be deposed. The New York bank has been sued by the government of the U. S. Virgin Islands and a woman identified as Jane Doe, who was allegedly abused by Epstein. They contend JPMorgan should have seen evidence of Epstein’s sex trafficking. JPMorgan spokesperson Darin Oduyoye called the deposition request a media stunt because plaintiffs' lawyers know the CEO has no relevant knowledge.

LONDON (AP) — The price of food in the U. K. rose at the fastest pace in 45 years last month, keeping inflation above 10% for a seventh straight month amid a cost-of-living crisis that has fueled a wave of strikes by government workers. The Office for National Statistics said Wednesday that food prices jumped 19.2% in the 12 months through February, the biggest increase since August 1977. Overall, consumer price inflation eased to 10.1%, from 10.4% the previous month, as the cost of gasoline and diesel fuel fell. The March figure was above the 9.8% rate economists had forecast.

NEW YORK (AP) — If you're expecting a tax refund, it could be smaller than last year. And with inflation still high, that money won’t go as far as it did a year ago. The more than 101 million taxpayers who had filed as of April 7 got refunds that were an average of 9.3% less than last year. That's in part due to pandemic relief programs expiring. The filing deadline for most taxpayers is Tuesday, though it has been extended for eight states that were hard hit by severe weather. According to the most recent IRS data, the average refund is $2,878, down from $3,175. That's a difference of more than $300.

SAN FRANCISCO (AP) — Twitter has quietly removed a policy against the “targeted misgendering or deadnaming of transgender individuals.” The move is raising concerns that the Elon Musk-owned platform is becoming less safe for marginalized groups. Twitter enacted the policy against deadnaming, or using a transgender person’s name before they transitioned, as well as purposefully using the wrong gender for someone as a form of harassment, in 2018. TikTok and Meta both have similar policies on the books.

NEW YORK (AP) — The deadline to file your taxes has arrived. Whether you do them by yourself, go to a tax clinic or hire a professional, navigating the tax system can be complicated. Experts recommend that you ask as many questions as you need during the process. Filing for an extension isn't ideal, but if you need one you can get it and then you'll have until October to file your taxes. The deadline has been extended for parts of California, Alabama, Georgia, New York, Tennessee, Arkansas, Mississippi and Indiana that were hard hit by severe weather. Check with the IRS to see if that applies to you.

WASHINGTON (AP) — House Speaker Kevin McCarthy is working furiously to build support for a Republican proposal that would raise the nation’s debt limit. President Joe Biden wants that legal borrowing limit raised, too, but he doesn't want the other part of McCarthy's demands — a limit on much future federal spending increases to 1% a year, among other changes. McCarthy is looking for negotiations with the White House, but Biden quickly batted down his bid as “huge cuts” to programs hitting million of Americans. The Republican leader's proposal has almost no chance in the Democratic-controlled Senate. And he still has to unite fractured House GOP factions to pass the legislation in the chamber they control.

SAN FRANCISCO (AP) — Netflix is poised to shut down the DVD-by-mail rental service that set the stage for its trailblazing video streaming service. The move will end an era that began a quarter century ago when delivering discs through the mail was considered a revolutionary concept. The DVD service still delivers films and TV shows in the red-and-white envelopes that once served as Netflix’s emblem. But the California company says it plans to mail its final discs on September 29. Netflix ended last year with nearly 231 million worldwide subscribers to its video streaming service. It stopped disclosing how many people still pay for DVD-by-mail delivery years ago as that part its business steadily shrank.