No results were found for your search query.

To return expected results, you can:

Reduce the number of search terms. Each term you use focuses the search further.

Check your spelling. A single misspelled or incorrectly typed term can change your result.

Try substituting synonyms for your original terms. For example, instead of searching for "java classes", try "java training"

Did you search for an IBM acquired or sold product ? If so, follow the appropriate link below to find the content you need.

Search results are not available at this time. Please try again later or use one of the other support options on this page.

PH53926: THE COLLECTOR TOOL DOES NOT COLLECT THE SECURITY DOMAIN CONFIG FILES.

By subscribing, you receive periodic emails alerting you to the status of the APAR, along with a link to the fix after it becomes available. You can track this item individually or track all items by product.

Notify me when this APAR changes.

Notify me when an APAR for this component changes.

When using collector tool to gather WebSphere Application Server

configuration files, security domain config files are not

included. The collector tool should include all the files from

the

* USERS AFFECTED:  All users of IBM WebSphere Application      *

*                  Server                                      *

* PROBLEM DESCRIPTION: The collector tool in WebSphere         *

*                      Application Server does not include     *

*                      the security domain configuration       *

*                      files.                                  *

* RECOMMENDATION:                                              *

When using collector tool to gather WebSphere Application

Server

configuration files, the security domain configuration files

are not included. The collector tool should include all the

files from the "

The collector tool code was updated to include the security

domain configuration files in the collector tool output jar

file.

The fix for this APAR is targeted for inclusion in fix pack

8.5.5.24 and 9.0.5.15. For more information, see 'Recommended

Updates for WebSphere Application Server':

https://www.ibm.com/support/pages/node/715553

APAR is sysrouted FROM one or more of the following:

APAR is sysrouted TO one or more of the following: