The Hammers were held to a 1-1 draw by Gent in last week's first leg after Danny Ings's goal on the stroke of half-time was cancelled out by Hugo Cuypers.

West Ham will hope home advantage aids their bid to reach the last four of the Europa Conference League.

The Hammers were held to a 1-1 draw by Gent in last week's first leg after Danny Ings's goal on the stroke of half-time was cancelled out by Hugo Cuypers.

West Ham will hope home advantage aids their bid to reach the last four of the Europa Conference League.

It was far from a vintage performance in Belgium, but David Moyes's side have momentum thanks to a three-game unbeaten streak after holding Premier League leaders Arsenal to a 2-2 draw on Sunday.

Gent's visit to the London Stadium kicks off a key run of fixtures for West Ham, who remain in the thick of the relegation battle while also dreaming of European glory.

The winner will face Anderlecht or AZ Alkmaar in the Europa Conference League semi-finals, with the Belgian side holding a 2-0 lead from the first leg of their last-eight tie.

RadioTimes.com has rounded up everything you need to know about how to watch West Ham v Gent on TV and online.

Read more football features: Best players in the world | Best players of all time | Live football on TV today | Premier League TV schedule

West Ham v Gent will take place on Thursday 20th April 2023.

Check out our live football on TV guide for the latest times and information.

West Ham v Gent will kick off at 8pm.

There are plenty of matches on the Premier League TV schedule this week.

The game will be shown live on BT Sport 2 from 7:15pm.

There are multiple ways to get BT Sport. If you already have BT Broadband, you can add BT TV and Sport to your existing contract from just £15 per month. You can add the ‘Big Sport’ package for £40 per month which includes all BT Sport and 11 Sky Sports channels via a NOW pass.

You can watch the match with a BT Sport monthly pass without signing up to a contract.

Regular subscribers can also stream matches via the BT Sport website or BT Sport app on a variety of devices including laptops, smartphones and tablets.

You can listen to the match on talkSPORT 2.

talkSPORT 2 is available on DAB radio, and like the BBC, you can tune in via most TV packages. You can also listen to talkSPORT 2 online via the website or app.

In working partnership with RadioTimes.com, bet365 has provided the following betting odds for this event:

For all the latest football odds and more, visit bet365 today. Bet £10 & Get £30 in Free Bets for new customers at bet365.

Min deposit requirement. Free Bets are paid as Bet Credits and are available for use upon settlement of bets to value of qualifying deposit. Min odds, bet and payment method exclusions apply. Returns exclude Bet Credits stake. Time limits and T&Cs apply.

*Odds subject to change. 18+. T&Cs apply. BeGambleAware.org. Note – The bonus code RT365 does not change the offer amount in any way.

RadioTimes.com now publishes more football coverage than ever before! You can check out the full West Ham v Gent predictions guide for expert insight into the game, as well as predicted line-ups for both teams.

If you’re looking for something else to watch, check out our TV Guide or Streaming Guide, or visit our Sport hub for all the latest news.

Try Radio Times magazine today and get 12 issues for only £1 with delivery to your home – subscribe now. For more from the biggest stars in TV, listen to The Radio Times Podcast.