It was the gig that didn't come easily for Ally Langdon.

But the popular Nine presenter, who beat out a large number of other contenders in what was a frenzied race for the coveted job, is having the last laugh as the new A Current Affair host.

Fresh off the first official ratings period of 2023 Langdon has helped lift ACA's ratings to some of their highest in recent years - and her debut beat Tracy Grimshaw's figures from the same day one year ago by around 30,000 viewers.

In the final week of ratings season, ACA recorded its highest rating episode of the year - 1.1 million - across metro, regional and BVOD (broadcaster on-demand video) markets.

Viewers, too, have been vocal in their approval, with an early series Langdon produced on domestic violence drawing praise across social media.

“Stellar Job tonight Ally,” said a Facebook commenter following the segment broadcast.

'Ally was 100 per cent the right choice,' commented a viewer.

'Fantastic interview Ally – welcome to A Current Affair,' said another.

’If this is the direction she is taking the show, I reckon I might watch more often.'

Behind the scenes, colleagues at Nine say Langdon's impressive start to the ratings year is being 'quietly applauded' by her allies at the network's North Sydney headquarters, given she faced some pushback from management.

'There were certainly some who didn't want to see her in that role,' a Nine insider told Daily Mail Australia.

'But she has certainly proved them wrong and in a very short amount of time.

'She has more than filled Tracy's shoes.'

Sources at Nine say a number of other hosting options were seriously considered, and even Langdon's old co-host at Today - Karl Stefanovic - was allegedly keen on the job.

The network openly auditioned a number of candidates including Chris O'Keefe, Sylvia Jeffreys and Deborah Knight before Langdon was handed the career-defining role - one which was once held by her father-in-law Mike Willesee.

Speaking about receiving the news that she had landed the gig - via phone call -  Langdon said her husband Mike Willesee Jr was 'incredibly proud' and shared some advice handed to her from Grimshaw.

'I spoke to Trace a lot in the lead up to the (host) announcement being made and I remember a conversation we had as she was driving in ahead of her final show' she told the Herald Sun.

'She said; 'Just be yourself, Ally, be yourself, and follow what you want to follow'.

Channel Nine confirmed in December that Ally would vacate her co-hosting role at Today to replace outgoing ACA host Grimshaw, with 60 Minutes reporter Sarah Abo stepping in as her replacement.

However, Today remains locked in a losing battle with Seven's Sunrise which has won seven consecutive ratings weeks prior to the non-ratings break.