So, you know how to beat the Horde of the Hunt, and winning against the Horde of the Bastion is a piece of cake for you. Still, there’s the Horde of the Spore to deal with, and that might take some more effort than the other two.

Minecraft Legends features three different Piglin factions, and the Horde of the Spore might even be the trickiest because it relies on nasty AoE damage. If you’re struggling to win against this enemy, we give you our guide on how to destroy the Horde of the Spore portals in Minecraft Legends.

Related: Can You Mine in Minecraft Legends?

You have to understand your enemy to defeat it. The main issue with the Horde of the Spore bases is that they’re built on pillars and require you to take a slower approach taking them down one at a time to get to the portal.

The whole process is made more difficult by the Horde of the Spore Piglins relying on using poisonous attacks that are not immensely powerful but have a nasty AoE effect that will heavily impact your forces.

Therefore, trying to take down a Horde of the Spore base means that you’re trying to build ramps to go from one pillar to another while poisonous projectiles keep raining down on your army so that you’re left with almost nothing when you finally get to the portal—if you get to the portal at all.

In such an unfriendly environment, you may think that the best approach is to rush and try to get to the portal as soon as possible, but that won’t do it here. Your ramps are quite limited when it comes to vertical range, so you will usually have to start from the lowest pillar and work your way to the top.

Destroying everything along the way and clearing out a safe path for your troops is the best method for success. You will want to take down Spawners in particular because you don’t want more poisonous Piglins than those that you must face. Also, try to destroy Carpenters that usually hide near portals because we don’t need the enemy repairing its infrastructure behind your back.

When you finally get to the portal, assault it head on using Creepers and cobblestone golems if you have those units available. Hit the portal hard with everything you have to destroy it as fast as you can and be done with that Horde of the Spore base once and for all.

We hope this guide helps you raze all the Horde of the Spore portals to the ground. If you need more assistance with this strategy game, check out more useful guides in our dedicated Minecraft Legends section.