The leisure centre is being completely transformed with a new fitness suite, café, flexible studio, changing rooms, new access and car parking.

And work is now starting on the foundations for the centre piece of the project – a brand new 60x40m indoor sports barn with 3G pitch – which is a first for Swansea.

Swansea Council Leader Rob Stewart joined cabinet colleagues and officers for a tour of the site to check on progress.

He said: “This is going to be a game changer for sports, leisure and community facilities on the eastside and beyond – a facility like no other in Swansea and one that will welcome thousands of people with benefits for all ages.

“I’m so pleased to see the progress that is being made and I thank Morganstone for their work to date. It is yet another example of Swansea Council delivering on the policy commitments we made last June.”

Cabinet Member for Education and Learning Robert Smith added: “We are committed to providing our schools and their communities with the very best sports and leisure facilities we can and I’m extremely grateful to all the partners involved for sharing our ambition and for their support.”

Morganstone has been working closely with the school not only to minimise any disruption but also to promote and educate pupils about career opportunities in the construction industry.

This has included a dedicated Girls in Construction event and this summer it will be making work experience opportunities available to school leavers.

The company has also taken on additional staff working with the council’s Job’s Hub in the Quadrant Shopping Centre and with Careers Wales.

Managing Director Ian Morgan said: “As a local company, we are delighted to be working with Swansea Council and its partners on delivering this much needed facility for the area.

“Morganstone are passionate about the local community and are proud to see so many organisations coming together to support this excellent initiative and project.

“I would also on behalf of Morganstone like to give our thanks and gratitude to the staff and pupils of Cefn Hengoed School for their cooperation and assistance in helping to deliver the project whilst ensuring the school was allowed to operate with the minimum disruption.”

Cefn Hengoed Community School’s Headteacher, Carl Bale, added: “We are delighted to be part of this joint venture to update our current school and leisure centre facilities.

“This development will benefit not only the pupils of Cefn Hengoed, but also the whole Swansea community. I would like to thank Morganstone for their careful management of work during peak school hours, which has helped minimise disruption.”

The Sports Barn and Leisure Centre upgrade is being funded by Swansea Council and the Welsh Government’s Community Hubs Capital Grant Scheme, with a £750,000 grant from the Football Foundation with support from the Swansea City Foundation.

Further contributions were made by Sport Wales, as well as Freedom Leisure which manages the leisure centre in partnership with the council.

The Community Family Engagement Centre is funded by the Welsh Government’s Focussed Schools Capital Grant Scheme.

Work is expected to be completed by autumn 2023.