One of the UK’s newest and fastest growing debt collection providers has been awarded partner status by leading data analytics and panel manager, Qualco UK.

Following a rigorous due diligence process, McLaren Credit Services, which provides debt resolution services to various sectors, including utilities, finance, telecommunications, and retail, has become gained a place on Qualco’s panel, handling arrears debt management on behalf of Qualco’s clients.

As part of Qualco’s network of third-party debt collection agencies, the company now joins other selected experts in collecting and managing consumer and high value, corporate and commercial debt from outstanding accounts, for a wide range of clients.

Jaco Snyman, managing director of McLaren Credit Services said: “We are certain that our new partnership with Qualco marks the start of a strong, long-term relationship.

“To get here we have gone through an extensive vetting process which evaluated our capabilities, track record and our regulatory compliance.

“We feel that we differentiate ourselves by not only providing bulk portfolio servicing but the ability to apply case management principles and also by offering an optional offshore service delivered by our fully accredited South African team. This flexible and hybrid operating model helps maintain a high level of skilled agents and counters skills shortages and recruitment challenges in the UK, a geography where large call collection volumes need to be addressed without compromising quality.

“Overall, it’s a great milestone for us as we look to add more value to Qualco’s clients, whilst meeting the highest standards of compliance and performance levels, in what is a tightly regulated sector.”

Christian Jacob, managing director of Qualco added: “We are excited to have appointed McLaren Credit Services to our panel. Their skills around complicated commercial debt and their hybrid onshore/offshore operating model means we can provide our clients a wider service proposition by adding their skillset to the Panel.

“McLaren Credit Services is an exciting business which has a lot of heritage in debt resolution and we looking forward to seeing the benefits it brings and broadening the service we are delivering our clients.”

McLaren Credit Services is a division of business process outsourcing specialist, the Sigma Connected Group.