Jasmine Pineda and Gino Palazzolo are amongst the most controversial couples of 90 Day Fiance. Initially, they had several ups and downs but ended up together. Fans were heavily invested in their storyline as it offered a lot of drama to its viewers. Recently, there have been rumors circulating about Jasmine and Gino’s split. But, it seems that now they are finally thinking of settling down and having a child. Recently, the former also opened up about the same. Is Jasmine really pregnant?

90 Day Fiance star Jasmine was in the headlines when her K1 visa was approved. Fans expected her to land in America anytime but were skeptical why she wasn’t traveling to the States. Intially, fans felt that maybe the star is having issues with her partner, Gino. But another common interpretation was that Jasmine was pregnant and wasn’t able to travel till she delivered her baby. Amid all this, her social media presence also decreased, which further ignited the rumors. On the other hand, many users wondered if something was wrong with the Panama native or if she was in depression.

After months of speculation, Jasmine finally decided to open up. She revealed in one of her stories that she has been really busy these days. The star was “focusing” on her “family and job.” Hence, she couldn’t stay active on social media. The Panama native explained that she was working as a “health coach,” and it wasn’t like her online jobs. Jasmine’s primary time goes into it, leading to her inactivity on social platforms. The 90 Day Fiance star clarified that she has been doing fine lately and is not dealing with any kind of depression. It is just that she has been a bit occupied lately.

Intially, Jasmine and Gino had several hurdles in their way. Yet, they emerged as a strong couple, and fans liked watching them. But it seems that there is some trouble in paradise. It has been a while since Jasmine and Gino didn’t post pictures together. They didn’t even have a word about their togetherness. Evidently, there are several rumors about their split, but both the stars decided not to address them yet. The last viewers heard from them was when the couple was on vacation together.

Recently, Jasmine shared an “emotional” post that further hinted at her breakup. She talked about how her father was the first one who broke her heart. Fans felt that maybe the TLC star was undergoing heartbreak again. On the other hand, in one of her latest Instagram stories, she talked about leaving all the “toxic” people and not letting the environment affect her soul. Such cryptic captions and stories make fans wonder if Jasmine and Gino have actually parted ways. However, we are still waiting for the stars to confirm; these are just speculations. Keep coming back to TV Season & Spoilers for all the latest 90 Day Fiance tea.