Silvergate Capital (NYSE:SI – Get Rating) and Chemung Financial (NASDAQ:CHMG – Get Rating) are both small-cap finance companies, but which is the superior business? We will contrast the two companies based on the strength of their dividends, profitability, earnings, analyst recommendations, institutional ownership, risk and valuation.

94.4% of Silvergate Capital shares are held by institutional investors. Comparatively, 35.9% of Chemung Financial shares are held by institutional investors. 1.7% of Silvergate Capital shares are held by insiders. Comparatively, 12.3% of Chemung Financial shares are held by insiders. Strong institutional ownership is an indication that large money managers, hedge funds and endowments believe a company will outperform the market over the long term.

Silvergate Capital has a beta of 2.25, indicating that its share price is 125% more volatile than the S&P 500. Comparatively, Chemung Financial has a beta of 0.12, indicating that its share price is 88% less volatile than the S&P 500.

This is a summary of recent recommendations for Silvergate Capital and Chemung Financial, as provided by MarketBeat.com.

Silvergate Capital currently has a consensus target price of $34.18, suggesting a potential upside of 2,134.11%. Chemung Financial has a consensus target price of $49.00, suggesting a potential upside of 19.95%. Given Silvergate Capital’s  higher possible upside, research analysts plainly believe Silvergate Capital is more favorable than Chemung Financial.

This table compares Silvergate Capital and Chemung Financial’s net margins, return on equity and return on assets.

This table compares Silvergate Capital and Chemung Financial’s gross revenue, earnings per share and valuation.

Chemung Financial has lower revenue, but higher earnings than Silvergate Capital. Silvergate Capital is trading at a lower price-to-earnings ratio than Chemung Financial, indicating that it is currently the more affordable of the two stocks.

Chemung Financial beats Silvergate Capital on 8 of the 14 factors compared between the two stocks.

Silvergate Capital Corporation operates as a bank holding company for Silvergate Bank that provides banking products and services to business and individual clients in the United States. The company accepts deposit products, including interest and noninterest bearing demand accounts, money market and savings accounts, and certificates of deposit accounts. Its loan products comprise one-to-four family real estate loans, multi-family real estate loans, commercial real estate loans, construction loans, commercial and industrial loans, mortgage warehouse loans, and reverse mortgage loans, as well as consumer loans and other loans secured by personal property. The company also provides cash management services for digital currency-related businesses. Silvergate Capital Corporation was founded in 1988 and is headquartered in La Jolla, California.

Chemung Financial Corp. is a holding company, which engages in the provision of banking, financing, fiduciary, and other financial services. It operates through the Core Banking and Wealth Management Services (WMG) segments. The Core Banking segment attracts deposits from the general public to originate consumer, commercial, commercial real estate, and residential mortgage loans, primarily in the local markets of the firm and to invest in securities. The WMG segment provides trust and investment advisory services to clients. The company was founded on January 2, 1985 and is headquartered in Elmira, NY.

Receive News & Ratings for Silvergate Capital Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Silvergate Capital and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter.