Minerva Surgical (NASDAQ:UTRS – Get Rating) is one of 225 publicly-traded companies in the “Surgical & medical instruments” industry, but how does it compare to its rivals? We will compare Minerva Surgical to similar businesses based on the strength of its dividends, institutional ownership, analyst recommendations, valuation, risk, earnings and profitability.

Minerva Surgical has a beta of 0.85, indicating that its share price is 15% less volatile than the S&P 500. Comparatively, Minerva Surgical’s rivals have a beta of 1.36, indicating that their average share price is 36% more volatile than the S&P 500.

65.1% of Minerva Surgical shares are held by institutional investors. Comparatively, 46.4% of shares of all “Surgical & medical instruments” companies are held by institutional investors. 8.5% of Minerva Surgical shares are held by company insiders. Comparatively, 14.8% of shares of all “Surgical & medical instruments” companies are held by company insiders. Strong institutional ownership is an indication that endowments, hedge funds and large money managers believe a stock is poised for long-term growth.

This table compares Minerva Surgical and its rivals top-line revenue, earnings per share and valuation.

Minerva Surgical’s rivals have higher revenue and earnings than Minerva Surgical. Minerva Surgical is trading at a higher price-to-earnings ratio than its rivals, indicating that it is currently more expensive than other companies in its industry.

This is a summary of current recommendations and price targets for Minerva Surgical and its rivals, as provided by MarketBeat.com.

Minerva Surgical presently has a consensus target price of $5.00, indicating a potential upside of 1,753.23%. As a group, “Surgical & medical instruments” companies have a potential upside of 18.38%. Given Minerva Surgical’s  higher possible upside, research analysts plainly believe Minerva Surgical is more favorable than its rivals.

This table compares Minerva Surgical and its rivals’ net margins, return on equity and return on assets.

Minerva Surgical rivals beat Minerva Surgical on 9 of the 13 factors compared.

Minerva Surgical, Inc., a commercial-stage medical technology company, develops, manufactures, and commercializes minimally invasive solutions to meet the uterine healthcare needs of women in the United States. The company offers Minerva ES Endometrial Ablation System and Genesys HTA Endometrial Ablation System, which are endometrial ablation devices; Symphion Tissue Removal System, a minimally invasive uterine tissue removal system to combine bladeless tissue resection and coagulation, continuous visualization, and intrauterine pressure monitoring; and Resectr Tissue Resection Device, a handheld surgical instrument to enable the hysteroscopic removal and diagnosis of endometrial polyps. Its devices are utilized by obstetrician-gynecologists in various medical treatment settings, including hospitals, ambulatory surgical centers, and physician offices. The company was incorporated in 2008 and is headquartered in Santa Clara, California.

Receive News & Ratings for Minerva Surgical Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Minerva Surgical and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter.