Cameron Smith sits in the middle of an Adelaide shopping mall which he could afford to buy.

And says the best thing about being back in Australia is the humble meat pie.

WATCH THE VIDEO ABOVE: Australia gears up for first ever LIV Golf event.

Watch every round of the LIV Golf 14-event season live and free on 7plus  >>

“I flew into Brisbane on Thursday and I ate my weight in meat pies already,” the Australian golfer said at a meet-and-greet at Adelaide’s Rundle Mall on Wednesday.

British Open champion Smith was last year paid a reported $145 million sign-on fee to join LIV Golf, and has banked PGA Tour career earnings of more than $40m.

But the 29-year-old, the star Australian attraction at LIV Golf’s inaugural tournament in Adelaide starting on Friday, remains outwardly unaffected.

The Queenslander signed autographs and posed for photos for an hour during a promotional appearance in Adelaide’s main mall.

“There’s usually a few mullets following me around, there’s some pretty horrendous ones ... but it always brings a smile to people’s faces,” he said.

Besides pies and mullets, the United States-based golfer was relishing seeing friends and family, again - and not having to set an early morning alarm to watch his beloved Brisbane Broncos in the NRL.

“I wake up and watch the Broncos play every Friday, Saturday morning when I am over there (in the US), I love it,” Smith said.

“My whole family played rugby league basically their whole life. I played until I was about 11 and then I realised I was too small.”

Smith captains an all Australian LIV team called Ripper GC featuring compatriots Matt Jones, Marc Leishman and Jed Morgan.

And he reckoned the Aussies might have an advantage in the looming tournament at Grange Golf Club in Adelaide’s west.

“For all the boys it’s nice to be back in Australia, see some friends and family and hopefully we can come out with a victory this weekend,” Smith said.

“Aussie golf is so much different to everywhere else around the world.

“For us, it’s nice to get that firm and short grass. A few of the other boys might not like it so much.

“So many good memories on Australian golf courses and everyone feels comfy.”