It’s 2023 Zurich Classic Free Picks time. In fact, we need to point out golf gambling enthusiasts can now make informed decisions on their bets with the help of Cappers Picks 2023 Zurich Classic free picks & PGA golf betting predictions. The stakes keep going higher on the PGA Tour, as RBC Heritage Championship last week is now followed by this tournament. We just keep grinding out winning golf picks here at CappersPicks.com.

* Format: Teams – fourballs (best ball) in Rounds 1 and 3, and foursomes (alternate shot) in Rounds 2 and 4

The Tour heads to New Orleans this week where things will take on a very different look, with the standard individual format taking an off-week and the team game moving to the forefront at the Zurich Classic.

Eighty two-man teams will compete in best ball (Thursday and Saturday) and alternate shot (Friday and Sunday) formats in search of shared glory.

Patrick Cantlay and Xander Schauffele return as defending champions of this event at 4-1 odds, making them the favorites to repeat as champions following last year’s tournament record 29-under par finish.

The other marquee pairing is Collin Morikawa and Max Homa, who are coming together for the first time. They’re second on the betting board at +850 this week.

The importance of chemistry in a pairing can’t be understated this week, and Cantlay and Schauffele have that in spades – in addition to being the highest ranking combined pairing in the World Golf Rankings.

The defending champs haven’t earned a solo victory this season, but each is in good form, with Cantlay finishing third at Harbour Town, and Schauffele coming in fourth. Sometimes the oddsmakers just get it right, and while the 4-to-1 odds may not break the bank, they’re the clear best pairing in this field which makes them impossible to overlook.

At last year’s Presidents Cup, International Team captain Trevor Immelman paired these two on Saturday afternoon and they rewarded that pick with a four-ball victory over none other than Cantlay and Schauffele – the defending champion’s of this event.

Tom Kim’s form hasn’t been great thus far this season, but the pairing with Si Woo and the reminder of the success they’ve found together in the past could be just what’s needed to rejuvenate his game. Si Woo hasn’t played in this event since 2019.

If the connection between players is an important factor this week – and on that we’re all in agreement – then the connection between the Fitzpatrick brothers can’t be overlooked. For Alex, this will mark his PGA Tour debut as a professional, so having his brother alongside will certainly make for an easier go of things.

On the flip side, brother Matt is coming off a victory at Harbour Town over a quality field, so we know his game is where it needs to be to help lead his brother through his debut.

Sahith Theegala can’t seem to play poorly this year. He’s coming off another top 10 finish in the RBC Heritage – impressive given the quality of the field. That’s his seventh top 10 finish this season. And he has a team event win earlier this year, claiming the top spot in the QBE Shootout with Tom Hoge.

Meanwhile, Justin Suh has two top-six finishes already in his rookie season. In 2021, Suh finish T11 in a pairing with Doug Chim at this event.

These players make a natural pairing, as the former UNLV teammates look to bring some of that Runnin’ Rebel magic to New Orleans. Kitayama already broke through at Bay Hill, and Montgomery is pacing all rookies on Tour.

Montgomery’s terrific putting could help set this team apart, as he ranks third in SG Putting on the season, while Kitayama is gaining strokes on the green himself. We’ve already seen the duo win an event in Vegas, and this could be their real breakthrough as a pairing.

If you’re looking for my 2023 Zurich Classic Free Picks, these are my favorites.

Here are the latest odds to win this week’s stop on the PGA Tour – the 2023 Zurich Classic.

At any rate, in addition to 2023 Zurich Classic Championship free picks, did you know we have professional handicappers here at Cappers Picks that provide premium PGA tour golf picks each week? Also, each week, our experts from CappersPicks.com will make their selections in PGA TOUR Golf. Of course the plays released are usually going to be head to head matchup picks.

At this time, here’s how this works! For as little as $29.95 you can grab these plays from our professional Cappers. Also, if the pick loses you get the next week FREE.

Lastly, we hope you enjoyed this week’s 2023 Zurich Classic Free Picks & PGA Golf Betting Prediction. Additionally, if you’d like comment below and let us know how we did! You can always find more FREE PGA TOUR Golf predictions here.

Register here for a FREE GOLF Betting Account Now for Daily Free Picks & More Special Offers! Check out our Linktr.ee too!