Double R Communications, the organizers of the Gila Valley’s only pop culture comic convention, said the everything went well for the 2023 Arizona Fan Fest pop culture comic convention.

“We had 37 percent more vendors and 70 percent more attendees than we originally planned for, and each said they had a great time. We will definitely be back again in 2024,” said Double R Communications’ David Bell.

Con goers purchased original comic books and sketches from artists; trading cards and comic books from sellers; unique gifts, dolls and 3-D printed items; and more.

Gamers had the chance to play in a sealed-deck Pokemon card game tournament, a Texas Hold ‘Em and Zombies tournament, and beta-tested a brand-new board game called “Water for Diamonds” developed by the Gila Valley’s own Dr. Sarah Sayles.

The Society for Creative Anachronism put on numerous displays throughout the two days, including armored and rapier battling, demonstrations on costume construction and Middle Eastern drumming and dance.

Panels were conducted by Tinker Cosplay, who gave an introduction to cosplay costume construction, and Carpe and Zen Productions on the mechanics of filmmaking.

The highlight of the two-day event was the costume contests for children, teens, adults and groups, where each first-place recipient was awarded a trophy and $25 cash.

That was followed by the Premier Cosplay Contest, where entrants had to construct at least 75-percent of his or her costume. Judged by cosplayer and convention guest AZ Power Girl Cara Nicole, Gilbert Espino of Tinker Cosplay, and Graham County Supervisor Paul David, the first-place trophy and $1,000 cash went to Octavio Franco of Tucson, who dressed as the character Guts from the Manga “Berserk.”

“It took me around three months to really complete,” Franco said, adding that he works on one costume each year. “This one came out really good. I’m surprised to win the first-place prize.”

Second place and $500 went to Kyra Eichenberger, who constructed a costume of the character Neopolitan from the web series “RWBY,” and third place and $250 went to Victoria Thatcher, who created a costume of the character Erik from “Phantom of the Opera.”

The fan’s choice winner of a one-of-a-kind stained glass trophy constructed by Monika Ragland was Leishae Bruckner, who not only created a Captain Hook costume, she created a four-foot Jolly Roger ship.

Following the convention Saturday, attendees were treated to the After Party comedy show, hosted by Kid Ever and headlined by comedian Adam Bathe, and Cosplay Karaoke hosted by 2018 Gila Idol winner Pete McCormick.

Sponsors for 2023 Arizona Fan Fest were the Southern Arizona Sports, Tourism and Film Authority; the Safford Pepsi Bottling Co.; Budweiser and III Counties Distributing; Valley Telecom Group; Primavera Online School; Best Western Plus Safford; Graham County Chamber of Commerce; Graham County; and Double R Communications.