The global kitchen sinks market size was valued at USD 3.2 billion in 2021 and is expected to expand at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 4.5% from 2022 to 2030. The rise in the number of households in various countries, the expansion of hotels and restaurants around the world, and rising consumer disposable income are all contributing to the market’s growth.

With an increasing number of people cooking at home for health and various other reasons, the need for a well-equipped kitchen has skyrocketed. Kitchen sinks fulfill a number of functions and in modular and smart kitchens, they can be especially useful if incorporated with the latest features and technologies. Sinks come in a wide range of sizes, shapes, materials, and brands that are suited for the varied demands and needs of a diverse group of consumers around the world.

Gather more insights about the market drivers, restrains and growth of the Global Kitchen Sinks market

In recent years, the desire to make homes more appealing and comfortable has fueled the development of innovative sinks. These sinks can be fitted with advanced features such as sprays, soap dispensers, and trash collection systems, resulting in increased consumer interest. For example, Moen has introduced a motion sensor, touchless faucet for kitchen sinks that can be activated just by waving one’s hand or using any cutlery to do so. This will not only save water but also save time from constantly turning the faucet on and off.

This market is also being fueled by the growing trend of renovating old and traditional kitchens with modern fixtures. The need for more functional spaces in apartments and houses is necessitated by a drop in the average household size. An increasing number of consumers have also been investing in minor as well as major home improvement projects, particularly over the past two years. One of the major factors driving the surge in home and kitchen renovation activities has been the COVID-19 pandemic.

According to the 2021 U. S. Houzz & Home Study, home remodeling projects were up in 2020, with kitchens receiving the most attention. Kitchens became a central space in the home during the pandemic, with more meals being prepared and eaten daily, along with it becoming a new location for work and schooling. Homeowners found the need to better utilize the space, resulting in remodeling projects. When compared to previous years, the median spending on major kitchen remodels grew by 14% in 2020.

* Furniture Rental Market – The global furniture rental market size was valued at USD 52.05 billion in 2022 and is expected to expand at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 7.0% from 2023 to 2030.

* Landscaping Services Market – The global landscaping services market size was valued at USD 296.09 billion in 2022 and is expected to expand at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 6.4% from 2023 to 2030.

Grand View Research has segmented the global kitchen sinks market based on material, number of bowls, and region:

* April 2021: Acrysil and IKEA Supply AG (Switzerland) formed a strategic partnership to manufacture and supply composite quartz kitchen sinks for IKEA’s global requirement

* March 2020: Ruvati USA added a new color choice to its epiGranite collection of kitchen sinks. Midas Yellow, the latest color, was inspired by renowned Italian sports automobile, Ferrari

Some prominent players in the global kitchen sinks market include:

Order a free sample PDF of the Kitchen Sinks Market Intelligence Study, published by Grand View Research.

Grand View Research, U. S.-based market research and consulting company, provides syndicated as well as customized research reports and consulting services. Registered in California and headquartered in San Francisco, the company comprises over 425 analysts and consultants, adding more than 1200 market research reports to its vast database each year. These reports offer in-depth analysis on 46 industries across 25 major countries worldwide. With the help of an interactive market intelligence platform, Grand View Research Helps Fortune 500 companies and renowned academic institutes understand the global and regional business environment and gauge the opportunities that lie ahead.