In a tight sea-saw battle, which featured no less than seven lead changes, Albion nipped visiting Medina 11-10 this afternoon in a Niagara-Orleans League softball game.

Albion, which scored in every inning, plated the game winner with two out in the bottom of the seventh on an RBI single by Madison Hughson snapping a 10-10 tie. A leadoff triple by winning pitcher Alana Irvine sparked the rally.

Three lead changes in the first three innings set the tone for the back-and-forth contest.

A two-run single by Cami London capped a three run second inning which put Albion up 4-2.

Medina though answered right back with four runs in the top of the third on a two-run single by Lilah Class and RBI singles by Baileigh McAdoo and Lorelei Sanders to regain a 6-4 lead. A fourth inning triple by Iyla Lilleby kept the Mustangs up 7-5.

Albion though quickly pulled even at 7-7 by scoring twice in the home half of the fourth on an error and a sacrifice fly by London. The Purple Eagles then went up 8-7 with an unearned run in the fifth.

Medina took the lead for the last time at 9-8 by scoring twice in the top of the sixth on RBI singles by Lilleby and McAdoo.

The Purple Eagles went back up 10-9 in the bottom of the sixth on an RBI triple by Maya Knaak and a fielders choice play off the bat of Leah Pawlak.

The Mustangs did pull even with a run in the top of the seventh on a fielders choice play off the bat of Breanne Demmer but could not regain the lead.

That set the stage of Albion’s walk off winning run in the last of the seventh on Hughson’s third single of the day.

Irvine, Abigail Wittenberg and Mackenzie Snook each had a pair of hits for the Purple Eagles.

Lilleby and Samantha Heschke both had 3 hits and McAdoo 2 for the Mustangs.

Albion is now 1-1 and Medina 0-1 in N-O action.

Akron 8, Barker 7

Elise Logan had 3 hits, including a three-run homer, to lead Akron to a narrow 8-7 win at Barker.

Natalie Brandel, Kaylee Stoll and Rachel Sutter each had multiple hits for Barker.

Akron is 2-0 and Barker 1-1 in the league.

Lyndonville 22, Elba 1

Lyndonville romped to a 22-1 Genesee Region League win at Elba as Lorelei Dillenbeck had 5 hits, including a triple, home run and 6 RBI. Alexa Robinson and Addison Dillenbeck each chipped in with 3 hits.

The Lady Tigers will next host Roy-Hart in a non league game at 10 a.m. Saturday.