City Receives Donation For Planned Bethany Depot Move Bethany’s City Administrator Jake Taylor announced to Bethany’s Board of Aldermen at their meeting Monday that the Toot Toot Restaurant and Lounge has donated $5,000 toward the project to move the Bethany Depot from its current location to a selected new location on the north side of the acquired Israel Land Tract.  Read more…

Pattonsburg Board Approves Summer School Dates Pattonsburg School Board members approved their summer school dates which will begin at the end of the school year during a meeting held Monday night. Read more…

Bedford’s Dana Nally Named Iowa’s Elementary Principal of the Year BEDFORD, IA – Bedford Elementary Principal Dana Nally has been named as the 2023 Iowa Elementary Principal of the Year by the School Administrators of Iowa. Read more…

MO Congressman Applauds Federal Court Decision On WOTUS (MISSOURINET) – Northern Missouri Congressman Sam Graves succeeded in passing legislation overturning a controversial expansion of the Clean Water Act only to be met with a presidential veto.  Read more…

Information On 2023 NFL Draft (MISSOURINET) –  Kansas City is set to host the 2023 NFL Draft. Read more…

Wide-Ranging Crime Package Receives Initial Approval (MISSOURINET) – The Missouri Senate has given initial approval to a wide-ranging crime package. Read more…

Iowa Legislature Sends Governor Her Bill to Crack Down on Fentanyl Dealers (Radio Iowa) The legislature has approved the governor’s recommendation that sentences be hiked for fentanyl-related crimes. Read more…

Saturday is Prescription Drug Take Back Day (Radio Iowa) National Prescription Drug Take Back Day is this Saturday from 10 a.m. until 2 p.m.  Read more…

Two Iowa Teens Plead Guilty in Spanish Teacher’s Beating Death (AP) Two Iowa teenagers admitted helping ambush and kill their high school Spanish teacher who was beaten to death in a park with a baseball bat. Both pleaded guilty Tuesday to first degree murder. Read more…

Looming El Nino Could Bring Farmers Decent Growing Season (Radio Iowa) The La Nina weather pattern is gone, and the National Climate Prediction Center anticipates an El Nino will develop within a few months, which could be welcome news for Iowa farmers.  Read more…