Singer Aditya Narayan, who announced a social media break on Wednesday, also posted a screenshot of a news report titled, "Priyanka Chopra's streak of exposing dark side of Bollywood: "I had sung a very big song this year, was replaced last minute." Aditya Narayan, after posting the screenshot of the report, clarified his intention was not to expose "any dark side of Bollywood," contrary to what was mentioned in the report. Aditya, in a recent interview had revealed that he had sung for a track that did not make it to the final cut. He explained that his experience in the Indian television and film industry has been largely positive so far. "Please don't take someone's words and use it completely out of context. I am not exposing any 'dark side of Bollywood.' I have not been treated unfairly. I am not being 'targeted'," wrote Aditya.

Explaining what he had actually said during the interview, Aditya Narayan wrote: "A journalist asked about my next Hindi film song release and I said I'm not sure as I had sung a song recently that didn't make the final cut. That's it. As singers we are not aware of the chronology of which singer sang first and which one sang last. All I know is that I was one of the probables. This is a normal practice in our music industry."

Aditya also shared what his experience has been like in the industry so far. "I am happy and grateful for my life and do not take even a single opportunity that I am given for granted. As someone who has been working her for 28 years, take it from me. The Hindi music, film and TV industry is a wonderful place to be working in. Are there people wonderful here? Yes. Most of them are. Are there absolute douchebags? Without a doubt yes but they are a minority," he wrote.

Aditya Narayan signed off the statement with these words: "Is it hard? Of course it is. Striving for excellence is hard. Be it science, literature, commerce or anywhere else. Work hard, give it all you got, count your blessings and spread love. We are all grains of sand in this vast and infinite cosmos."

Meanwhile, the singer also announced that he is taking a brief break from social media. An excerpt from his post read, "Before anyone jumps the gun, let me inform all my well wishers that I'm absolutely fine. I am on a digital break, happily spending time with my daughter, wife, parents and loved ones along with putting finishing touches to my debut album Saansein. Why have I deleted all posts from Instagram? Because it's like my digital canvas, and I wish to erase my previous imprints and begin afresh, as if starting a new painting."

Aditya Narayan, son of playback singer Udit Narayan and Deepa Narayan, has hosted several reality shows such as Sa Re Ga Ma Pa Challenge, Rising Star 3 and Entertainment Ki Raat to name a few. He has also hosted several seasons of the singing reality show Indian Idol.