About That’s How The Cookie Crumbles: A Little-Pinch-of-Murder Cozy Mystery

In A Town Where Everyone Knows Everyone, A Small Secret Can Lead to Fatal Consequences…

Lydia is the happy owner of a small but thriving bakery, and today is one of those busy days for her and Callie, her assistant. Lydia is also excited to test out a new recipe for a new tasty tart and wants to offer her friend Penelope a chance to give her feedback.

Penelope is a vigorous older lady who lives by herself on the outskirts of town. She’s a slightly eccentric, but friendly figure around the small town where they live. And she is also extremely caring about people she gets to know..

“My friendship with Penelope was fairly new, but we’d gotten pretty close over the past few months. she was just fun and easy to talk to, and our dogs got along marvelously.

I grabbed the tart and opened the door for my dog Pyrus. “Come on, boy!” he jumped from his seat and followed me to the front door. I knocked, waiting for Penelope to answer.

After a few seconds and no answer, I knocked again, but I got the same response.

I looked down at Pyrus who seemed just as confused as I was…”

Lydia wasn’t prepared for the events that would unfold that day.

Could they solve the puzzle before it’s too late? What will become of Penelope’s canine pal Clover?

This is the latest book from Miranda Rose Barker in the engaging Little-Pinch-of-Murder Cozy Mystery series.

If you are a fan of bakery cozy mysteries about intrepid women who bake by day and turn into amateur sleuths the rest of the time, this story will grab your interest from start-to-finish.

Come join Lydia and her loyal dog Pyrus on this journey!

Buy the book, and follow the author on social media:

Learn more about the writer. Visit the Author’s Website.

Author Bio:

Miranda Rose Barker has enjoyed the company of dogs from the age of 7. She only later discovered the rewarding world of dog rescues in her mid-30’s and since then, has lived with eight rescue dogs, including large and small mixed breeds from German shepherds and doodle dogs to some purebreds (schnauzers and other terriers).

A lifelong writer, she began writing fiction in 2000 and has loved bringing rescue dogs and their people together in her books for years. She enjoys reading and writing not only sweet romances, but also cozy mysteries.

Miranda Rose lives in southern California where she is often out looking for the next rescue pup to add to her pack.

Check out more of Miranda Rose Barker’s latest titles in her cozy mystery series (Tansy & Hank Pet Psychic Cozy Mysteries; Sycamore Grove Paranormal Cozy Mysteries; the Sweets of Saltcaster Cozy Mysteries; the Sweets of Snowkeep Cozy Mysteries; the Near-to-Home Mysteries; and the Little-Pinch-of-Murder Cozy Mysteries, as well as her sweet romance books, The Dog Lovers’ Rescue Romance Series, and much more.