With over 35 years of experience in emergency services, the new deputy chief is a familiar face in the area.

With over 35 years of experience in emergency services, the new deputy chief is a familiar face in the area.

The Lambertville-New Hope Ambulance and Rescue Squad (LNHARS) has appointed Thom Richmond as its new deputy chief and career staff supervisor, according to an announcement this week.

With over 35 years of experience in emergency services, Richmond is a familiar face in the area and has held several leadership positions in the past.

Previously, Richmond has served as battalion chief for the Northampton Fire Company, chief officer of Upper Bucks Regional EMS, chief officer of Newtown Ambulance Squad, and director of safety/security at the Solebury School. He has also worked as a paramedic for Central Buck EMS, an emergency dispatcher for Bucks County 9-1-1, and a tactical paramedic for the Central Bucks Special Response Team, a multi-agency tactical team.

In addition to his Pennsylvania EMT and paramedic certificates, Richmond possesses certifications in firefighter 1 and 2, vehicle rescue, and swift water rescue, the ambulance squad said.

Richmond enjoys being outside and spending time with his wife Julie, who is also a firefighter/EMT, and their three adult children as well as their spouses. He also enjoys hunting, fishing, skiing, ice hockey, riding ATVs, and other outdoor activities.

“I have worked with the crews from LNHARS for many years as a paramedic and always loved the organization and its members. I look forward to and am excited to be working with them full time now,” Richmond said.

“The Lambertville-New Hope Ambulance and Rescue Squad is thrilled to welcome Deputy Chief Richmond to their organization and looks forward to working alongside him to continue providing the best possible emergency services to residents and visitors,” the squad said.

The Lambertville-New Hope Ambulance and Rescue Squad reports responding to roughly 1,900 calls each year. They provide emergency medical and marine rescue service to the City of Lambertville, and parts of Stockton Borough and Delaware, and West Amwell townships in Hunterdon County. The squad also provides ambulance service to New Hope Borough and parts of Solebury Township in Bucks County.