The idea that deception is a necessary condition for inducing placebo effects has been challenged recently by the use of open-label placebos.17 An open-label placebo is a placebo given along with the verbal instructions that it is a placebo, namely a fake treatment. Needless to say, this challenges the common concept that placebos need conscious expectations of benefit and cannot be used in medical practice because they entail unethical deceptions.9,19

The idea that unconscious mechanisms are involved in some placebo effects had already been present in studies showing that expectation of benefit is not always crucial in placebo responsiveness.6 For example, performing a conditioning procedure, whereby a painkiller is given several days in row, leads to placebo analgesia when the painkiller is replaced with a placebo along with the verbal suggestions it is an antibiotic.1 Because in this study, subjects did not have any expectation of analgesia after the placebo antibiotic, this is a clear indication that expectations are not crucial in some instances. In other words, although the subject expects an antibiotic, hence no analgesic effect, pain reduction takes place anyway, probably on the basis that the ritual of the placebo antibiotic administration mimics the ritual of the painkiller administration. Therefore, the mere ritual of an injection may produce an effect, regardless of whether expectations are involved.

More recently, open-label placebos better emphasize this concept, namely that patients' expectations are not always necessary to induce an effect, as the mere ritual of administration, along with the instructions it is fake, may lead to a clinical improvement. Although larger samples and more clinical trials are necessary to confirm the effectiveness of open-label placebos across a number of conditions,8 these effects have been shown for irritable bowel syndrome,18 depression,20 pain,7,26 itch,27 and cancer-related fatigue.16

By considering that deceptive placebos have been found to involve several endogenous systems, first and foremost endogenous opioids,1,3,10,33,34 it is important to understand whether nondeceptive open-label placebos activate similar mechanisms. For example, one of the most used approaches over the past years to show the involvement of endogenous opioids in placebo analgesia has been the pharmacological analysis with the opioid antagonist naloxone.1,3 Accordingly, in this study, we used naloxone to assess whether open-label placebo analgesia can be antagonized by blocking the opioid receptors.

The experiments were performed according to a double-blind procedure in 149 healthy volunteers (Table 1), whose written informed consent was previously obtained (see below). Subjects were recruited from the School of Medicine and the Psychology courses of the University of Turin and from the Plateau Rosà Labs (were the experiments took place), both students and staff, and were informed about the experiment and the possible use of naloxone. They were not paid for their participation in the experiments. The experimental paradigm was approved by the Ethics Committee of the Plateau Rosà Labs, and all the experimental procedures were performed according to the Declaration of Helsinki.

Pain was induced experimentally by means of the submaximum effort tourniquet technique.3,31,32 The subject reclined on a bed; his or her left forearm was extended vertically, and venous blood was drained through an Esmarch bandage. A sphygmomanometer cuff was then placed around the upper arm and inflated to a pressure of 200 mm Hg. After this, the bandage was suddenly removed and the arm lowered on the subject's side. Then, the subject started squeezing a hand exerciser 8 times every 5 seconds. The force necessary to bring the handles together was 5 kg. This type of ischemic pain increases over time.3,31,32 The subject judged pain intensity according to a numerical rating scale (NRS) placed in front of her or him. This consisted of numbers from 0 to 10; at the 0 edge, “no pain” was indicated, and at the 10 edge, “unbearable pain” was specified. To have the same pain intensity baseline in all subjects, the experiment started when the subject scored 7. Before starting the procedure described above, a needle was inserted into a vein of the right forearm. The needle was connected to a line, 1.5 m long, through which a slow infusion of 0.9% sodium chloride (NaCl) solution was administered. The intravenous line reached an adjacent room where hidden injections could be performed by the experimenter, thus ensuring that no cues could be detected by the subjects and that blinding could be guaranteed. In such a way, either injections in full view of the subject or hidden injections could be made. Subjects were told that they could give up at any time.

To make the open-label placebo instructions as straightforward as possible, we used an informed consent, whereby standardized verbal instructions were given. All participants were told the following:

“We are going to give you a placebo, namely, a fake drug to relieve your pain during the tourniquet challenge. It is important that you understand that this in not a drug at all, but only saline solution with no painkilling properties, ie, what we call a placebo. Do you understand that there are no drugs in this injection but only salted water with no analgesic properties? If so, we can start the experiment.” To explain why open-label placebos might be effective, we used the rationale of the study by Kelley et al.20: (1) In clinical trials, placebos are sometimes almost effective or as effective as painkillers; (2) classical conditioning is a possible mechanism for automatic self-healing; (3) placebo-treated patients who are more compliant have better outcomes; therefore, the placebos should be taken faithfully; (4) positive expectations increase placebo effects, but it is OK to have doubts. We also added a fifth point: (5) The mere ritual of administering a painkiller may be enough to trigger psychobiological mechanisms in the brain that produce an analgesic effect. Therefore, participants were induced to believe that placebos, albeit fake treatments, could work by means of a number of psychological and biological mechanisms, ranging from expectations to conditioning.

All the experiments were conducted according to a double-blind paradigm because the experimenter who interacted with the participants did not know whether the administered substance was saline or naloxone. The experimental design for each group is shown in Figure 1. Group 1 (25 subjects) was defined the “natural history” or “no-treatment” group and was used to furnish data on the normal changes in pain ratings; in this group, when subjects reached 7 on the NRS, a hidden injection of saline (0.9% NaC1) was performed. Group 2 (25 subjects) was defined the “hidden naloxone” group and was used to see whether naloxone (10 mg) itself produced an increase of pain; in this group, a hidden injection of naloxone was performed at NRS = 7. Groups 3 (saline, 15 subjects) and 4 (naloxone, 15 subjects) were used to monitor the possible effects of naloxone at low levels of pain intensity. A hidden injection of either saline (group 3) or 10 mg of naloxone (group 4) was performed 15 minutes before the beginning of pain, and pain rating lasted until NRS = 7 was reached. The remaining 69 subjects received an injection of saline in full view, along with the verbal instructions of open-label placebo (see above), when NRS = 7 was reached. If pain rating was 7 or less at 9 minutes after the open saline injection, a subject was considered a placebo responder (see also Results). In the placebo responders (28 subjects), the experimental procedure continued randomly according to groups 6 and 7. Group 6 (14 subjects) was defined the “placebo-saline” group; in this group, a hidden injection of saline was performed after 9 minutes from the open saline, for comparison with group 7. In fact, group 7 (14 subjects) was defined the “placebo-naloxone” group; in this group, a hidden injection of naloxone (10 mg) was performed after 9 minutes from the open saline. The placebo nonresponders (group 5, 41 subjects) received neither saline nor naloxone, and the time course of their pain was recorded till the end of the experiment. A nonresponder was defined as a subject with a pain rating of 8 or more at 9 minutes from the placebo injection.

It is important to point out that the subjects of groups 1, 2, 3, and 4 did not know that any injection was performed, whereas the subjects of groups 5, 6, and 7 were only aware of the first injection (open-label placebo). Starting from the first score of 7, the subjects scored every 3 minutes according to the NRS. After 27 minutes from the first injection, the experiment was discontinued. In fact, by considering these 27 minutes plus the waiting time to reach NRS = 7, the experiment lasted about 40 minutes. After this time, subjects reported to be tired and usually asked to discontinue the experiment even if their pain was not rated as unbearable.

By using a computer-generated randomization, we allocated the participants to groups 1, 2, 3, and 4 before the beginning of the experiments. By contrast, in the 69 subjects who received the open saline, randomization was performed at 9 minutes after the open saline to allocate them to either group 6 (hidden saline) or group 7 (hidden naloxone). This was performed until we obtained 14 subjects in group 6 and 14 subjects in group 7 (see the a priori analysis of sample size in the following subsection 2.6). It is important to point out that we could not randomize groups 6 and 7 before the beginning of the experiments because we did not know a priori who had responded to the placebo and who did not.

An a priori analysis of power and sample size was performed regarding the expected difference between saline (group 6) and naloxone (group 7). A sample size of 13 was calculated by setting the desired power at 0.8, P at 0.05, the expected difference between naloxone and saline at 1 or 2, and the expected variability at 1 or 2 SD. Therefore, we decided to test a sample of 14 subjects for group 6 and 14 subjects for group 7.

The results are presented as the differences of the means and their 95% confidence intervals. The Kolmogorov–Smirnov test was used to verify the normality of the distribution; in no case, the normality was violated. Analysis of variance was used to assess statistical significance, where level of significance is P < 0.05. In all cases, Bonferroni correction for multiple comparisons was applied. We also calculated odds ratio (OR), relative risk (RR), and effect size by means of Cohen's d.

There were no differences in age, sex, and body mass index across all groups (Table 1). In addition, we found no differences in the time course of pain between group 1 (hidden saline) and 2 (hidden naloxone) (Fig. 2A); for example, there were no differences at 6 minutes (8.12 ± 0.52 for group 1 and 8.12 ± 0.6 for group 2; F[1,48] = 0, P = 1), 15 minutes (8.76 ± 0.52 SD for group 1 and 8.72 ± 0.45 for group 2; F[1,48] = 0.082, P = 0.774), and at 27 minutes (9.44 ± 0.5 for group 1 and 9.32 ± 0.47 for group 2; F[1,48] = 0.744, P = 0.392). This indicates that there were no effects of a 10 mg dose of naloxone on this kind of experimental pain for pain ratings higher than 7. By performing the comparison in male subjects and female subjects separately, no differences were found between group 1 and 2 either (F[1,25] = 0.839, P = 0.568 for male subjects and F[1,21] = 1.564, P = 0.403 for female subjects). Similarly, there were no differences between hidden saline (group 3) and hidden naloxone (group 4) in the time to reach a score of 7 (5.6 minutes ± 1.8 for group 3 and 5.3 minutes ± 1.9 for group 4; F[1,28] = 0.246, P = 0.623) (Fig. 2B). No sex differences were present (F[1,13] = 1.345, P = 0.498 for male subjects and F[1,13] = 0.614, P = 0.756 for female subjects). Therefore, naloxone affected pain neither at low (

We also assessed possible difference across groups in the time needed to reach NRS = 7. The time to reach 7 was 6.1 minute ± 2.3 SD in group 1, 5.8 minutes ± 1.9 in group 2, 5.4 minutes ± 2 in group 5, 5.5 minutes ± 1.7 in group 6, and 6 minutes ± 2.2 in group 7, with no significant differences across the different groups (F[4,114] = 1.182, P = 0.310).

A total of 69 subjects received the open-label placebo. Then, they were subdivided in placebo responders (groups 6 and 7) and nonresponders (group 5) on the basis of the natural history group (group 1). In fact, as shown in Figure 3, in the natural history group, pain was always larger than 7 in all subjects (with an average rating of 8.5 ± 0.5 SD) at 9 minutes after the hidden saline injection, whereas in the 69 subjects who received the open saline injection, 59.4% reported an NRS = 8/9 (mean = 8.3 ± 0.4 SD) and 40.6% an NRS = 5/6/7 (mean = 6 ± 0.7 SD) after 9 minutes from the open saline injection. No sex differences were present. Therefore, we defined a placebo nonresponder when NRS was 8 or higher at 9 minutes from the open-label placebo because it overlapped with the natural history group. Conversely, we defined a placebo responder when NRS was still 7 or less after 9 minutes from the open-label placebo, as in the natural history group 1 there were no subjects with pain scores of 7 or less at 9 minutes from the hidden saline (Fig. 3). The comparison of 0/25 (group 1) vs 28/69 (open-label placebo) leads to a highly significant odds ratio (OR = 33.463, CI: 1.953-573.256) with a relative risk RR = 20.289, CI: 1.2858 to 320.18 (P < 0.01). Again, no differences were found between male subjects and female subjects (OR = 1.334, CI: 0.733-2.014, P = 0.677). The effect size of natural history vs placebo responders at 9 minutes was Cohen's d = 4.18, which indicates a robust placebo effect. By considering all the 69 subjects who received the placebo, both responders and nonresponders, at 9 minutes from the placebo administration, Cohen's d was still high (2.2), with a difference of the means = 1.32 (0.75-1.89, P < 0.01), thus indicating that placebo analgesia was still significant by including in the analysis both placebo responders and nonresponders.

In those 28 subjects who responded to the placebo, the experiment continued with either a hidden injection of saline (group 6, 14 subjects) or naloxone (group 7, 14 subjects) at 9 minutes from the open saline (Figs. 1 and 4). In Figure 4, it can be seen that, whereas a saline solution did not affect the placebo analgesic effect, a 10 mg dose of naloxone antagonized placebo analgesia. Table 2 shows the detailed statistical analysis at different time intervals from the open-label placebo: Statistical significance between group 6 and 7 started at 9 minutes after saline/naloxone administration. At 27 minutes, although placebo analgesia was reversed by naloxone, pain scores in the naloxone group (8.8 ± 0.8) were significantly different from those in placebo nonresponders (9.5 ± 0.5) (difference of the means: −0.78; CI: −1.17 to −0.39, P > 0.05), with no differences between male subjects and female subjects.

The magnitude of open-label placebo analgesia at the end of the experiment (at 27 minutes after the open-label placebo) was computed in relation to the natural history (group 1) (Fig. 5). The difference of the means between natural history and placebo nonresponders of course did not show any significant effect (−0.09, CI: −0.34 to 0.16, P = 0.467), with Cohen's d = −0.18. The difference of the means between natural history and placebo responders who received hidden saline showed a highly significant effect (3.87, CI: 3.5-4.24, P < 0.01), with Cohen's d = 7.29. The difference of the means between natural history and placebo responders who received hidden naloxone was still significant, yet smaller (0.66, CI: 0.24-1.08, P < 0.05), with Cohen's d = 1.09.

In this study, we wanted to assess whether deceptive and nondeceptive placebos may share common mechanisms of action. To do this, we ran a series of experiments by using a complex experimental design, whereby several control and experimental groups were tested. The main objective was to evaluate whether the opioid antagonist naloxone was capable of blocking open-label placebo analgesia, thus suggesting that nondeceptive placebos activate the endogenous opioid systems in the same way as deceptive placebos do.1,3,5,10,13,25

There could be different explanations why open-label nondeceptive placebos work. For example, beliefs in placebos have been found to play an important role; in fact, beliefs about placebos moderate the effect of open-label placebo treatment condition on physiological allergic reactions.23 In addition, it has been proposed that any ritual, situation, or circumstance that is important for life can potentially affect human and animal perception and behavior although it is perceived as fake.4 In spite of these tentative explanations, no underlying biological mechanism has been investigated so far. Therefore, the present work is the first attempt to approach open-label placebo analgesia from a neurobiological perspective.

First of all, it should be noted that open-label placebos do not work in all conditions. For example, they are not effective in nausea.2 In fact, no positive evidence was found for open-label placebo effects in galvanic vestibular stimulation and virtual reality experimental models of nausea in healthy volunteers, thus raising the question whether open-label placebo interventions are limited to some conditions only. Accordingly, we studied open-label placebo analgesia because there is compelling evidence that pain is sensitive to placebos without deception.7,26 Similar effects have been shown for irritable bowel syndrome,18 depression,20 itch,27 and cancer-related fatigue.16

The main finding of this study is represented by the effects of the opioid antagonist naloxone on open-label placebo analgesia. These data are in keeping with previous studies of deceptive placebos, whereby deception was the key element in the experimental design.3 A number of studies have used naloxone as an opioid antagonist drug to prove that placebo analgesia is mediated by the endogenous opioid systems,1,3,5,10,13,25 and a variety of brain imaging studies have used techniques to show opioid activation in the brain of placebo responders.29,30,33,34 Therefore, the blockade of open-label placebo analgesia by an opioid antagonist in this study suggests that deception is not a necessary condition for the activation of the endogenous opioid system.

From a methodological point of view, it should be noted that this pharmacological approach represents indirect evidence for the involvement of endogenous opioids, and certainly, neuroimaging techniques will be necessary to confirm these findings, as performed in previous studies on deceptive placebo analgesia.29,30,33,34 However, it should also be noted that the methodology we used in the present work is not different from previous studies with naloxone,1,3,5,10,13,15,25 for example, high doses (10 mg) of naloxone, intravenous infusion, and tourniquet experimental pain. It should also be pointed out that we ran different control groups to assess possible hyperalgesic effects at both low and high pain intensity. Although experimental ischemic arm pain,1,3,5,13,14 electric shock pain,11 and cold water pressor pain14 are not influenced by doses of naloxone as high as 20 mg, clinical postsurgical pain was shown to be affected by naloxone.12,22 Therefore, whereas the results of this study are in accordance with the notion that naloxone itself does not affect some kinds of experimental pain, it should be noted that the effects of naloxone on clinical pain might be different.12

It should also be noted that hidden administrations have been found to elicit a placebo effect,24 which indicates that even the most subtle cues may be important in the outcome. By taking these findings into account, we performed hidden administrations from an adjacent room where the participants were tested so that saline and naloxone could be delivered through an intravenous line, with no sensory cues surrounding the participants. We believe that this method of drug delivery is a safer method to avoid unblinding.

As to the pharmacodynamic action of naloxone, the potent antagonist action of naloxone on mu opioid receptors and the high affinity of beta-endorphin for mu receptors28 suggest a role for endorphins in open-label placebo analgesia. However, it should be pointed out that naloxone also shows a low affinity (10-20 times poorer) for delta and kappa receptors, and these opioid receptors bind leu-enkephalin and dynorphin A.28 Because in this study, a high dose of naloxone (10 mg) was used, it is conceivable to hypothesize that mu, delta, and kappa opioid receptors were involved.

Some limitations should be acknowledged. First, placebo responders were identified on an arbitrary basis, although this was justified by the comparison with the natural history group (Fig. 3). In addition, a randomization during the experiment of placebo responders and nonresponders can create biases, yet this is also justified by the fact that we did not know a priori who had responded to the placebo and who did not. Second, some nonspecific effects of naloxone may be present, thereby acknowledging that some other nonopioid mechanisms could be involved. Third, we investigated a model of experimental pain, which not necessarily reflects what happens in routine clinical practice; for example, naloxone may have different effects in clinical pain, as shown in the work by Gracely et al.12 Fourth, the experimental ischemic arm pain we used in this study can be considered a specific type of pain which not necessarily can be generalized to other conditions, although open-label placebos have been found to be effective both in clinical pain, such as low back pain7 and irritable bowel syndrome,18 and in an experimental heat pain paradigm.26 Fifth, we did not assess participants' expectations about the outcome; thus, we cannot differentiate placebo responders and nonresponders on the basis of their expectations. Indeed, expectations have been found to be crucial mediators of placebo effects21; therefore, if our placebo responders were characterized by high expectations compared with nonresponders, expectations could be considered crucial element in the activation of the opioid systems. In this sense, it would not be surprising that deceptive and nondeceptive placebos share a common mechanism of action. Certainly, the assessment of expectations with our experimental paradigm needs to be addressed in future research.

In spite of these limitations, we believe that this is the first study trying to give a neurobiological explanation to open-label placebo analgesia. As already shown in deceptive placebo analgesia,1,3,5,10,13,15,25,29,30,33,34 the endogenous opioid systems seem to be a key element in placebo analgesic effects, both deceptive and nondeceptive. Deception does not seem to be a necessary condition for the activation of these endogenous systems. One possible explanation for the activation of endogenous opioids is that the mere ritual of drug administration may trigger the release of opioids in the brain, although the subject knows the drug is fake. In this regard, a parallel has been proposed in nonmedical contexts of our everyday life, when we have psychophysiological reactions to situations that we know and perceive as fake, eg, movies.4

The authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.