With Earth Day just around the corner, energy-efficient living is not only good for the planet, but it can also help save a few bucks now and in the long-term.

We asked Greg Donahue, a product manager at Reliance Home Comfort, for some tips on how to lower your energy bills and live more sustainably at home. Here are some ideas:

If you’re still using halogen light bulbs, try switching to LED bulbs that are up to 80 per cent more efficient, while producing less heat.

To use less water, try low-flow fixtures like toilets and shower heads.

If you don’t have a programmable thermostat, a smart thermostat will ensure that your home isn’t being heated or cooled while you’re not there.

If you’re still using a conventional storage tank water heater, you might want to consider switching to a tankless water heater.

“Everybody’s pretty familiar with the typical storage tank water heaters that keep 40 or 60 gallons of water hot 24/7,” Donahue noted. With a tankless water heater, sometimes called an ‘on-demand’ water heater, water is heated only when it’s needed, when a tap is turned or a dishwasher or washing machine is running.

“Instead of using gas or electricity to keep the water hot at all times, it heats the water only when you need it,” Donahue explained.

Tankless water heaters are becoming more popular, Donahue noted.

“We are seeing growth in this space due to urbanization and customer preference for improved efficiency. We have seen tankless water heater growth around 10-20 per cent since 2021.”

Donahue said heat pumps have been among the most popular topics in today’s heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) industry.

“It’s really just an air conditioner that has the ability to work in reverse,” Donahue noted.

Heat pumps can heat or cool your home.

“When heating your home, it’s extracting heat from outside through the power of refrigerant that’s in the line,” Donahue explained. “It’s able to extract the heat from the outside that’s quite cold. Some of the models go down to minus-30. Even in the summer, these heat pumps are more efficient from a SEER rating (seasonal energy efficiency ratio) perspective compared to an average air conditioner.”

Homeowners can access a range of incentives and rebates when installing heat pumps.

Up to $5,000 is available through a Natural Resources Canada program, Donahue noted. In Ontario, Enbridge has a program launched in January called the Home Efficiency Rebate Program, with similar terms and conditions to the Natural Resources Canada federal program.

Up to $7,100 in rebates are available through the Cold Climate Air Source Heat Pump grant from the Enbridge Home Efficiency Plus Rebate Program. Up to $5,600 is also available for non-Enbridge customers through the Canada Greener Homes Initiative. Rebate amounts include $600 for a mandatory Energy Audit from a certified EnerGuide Advisor. Customers must qualify for government and utility rebates independent of Reliance. Other terms and conditions may apply. Visit Natural Resources Canada for details.

With cooling season just a few weeks away, Donahue advises consumers to choose air conditioners with a minimum 16 SEER rating.

“We call 16 SEER the floor for what we would consider energy efficient,” he noted.

For more information, see reliancehomecomfort.com.