We speak to the rising DJ and producer about his origins, rise and upcoming album.

Rising Tel-Aviv based DJ and producer Kino Todo is soaring towards electronic music royalty. Refusing to be tied down to convention, the artist has been catching the eye and ear of listeners, building a huge fan base ever since he emerged with “Gidafi Na”, an offering that has accumulated over 10 million streams on DSP’s. He’s played sets at some of the biggest and best venues and festivals world-wide, such as DGTL, Circoloc and ADE. A series of sensational EP’s over the passed few years have brought Kino to the forefront of the electronic scene, and we have now been blessed with the news that he will be releasing his debut album, entitled Chances, on the 16th tune via his very own label Pop Tomorrow.

Alongside the announcement of the forthcoming, highly anticipated body of work, the artist has given us a first glimpse into what to expect from the body of work in the form of new single “Translator”. Borrowing the vocal nuance of Israeli vocalist Sima Noon, the track acts as a showcase of Kino’s skill and style. It’s a rhythmic masterpiece, with the busy early percussion soon joined by the infectious and hypnotic vocals of Noon, who serenades the listener atop a thumping house bass and winding soundscape. It’s a dreamy and translucent but focused effort that suggests that the LP will be an experience rather than a listener, with “Translator” laying the foundations for a potent masterclass of production tendencies and mood.

We managed to catch up with the rising star, discussing his musical origins, the impact of his hit single “Gidafi Na”, and what to expect from the upcoming album.

When did you start creating music and when did you know you wanted to do it professionally?

I knew I wanted to make music from a very young age. It was always my main love. I started in my youth, I learned to play instruments, and later on, I wanted to create electronic music, so I started to produce on my computer. I always hoped I would do It as my profession.

How did your upbringing influence your sound, growing up just outside of Tel Aviv? What did you listen to growing up?

I always had a wide spectrum of what I like. It went through different eras in music, and I’m always digging to find new inspirations. Growing up outside of Tel Aviv had some impact, but today everything is global, so I absorb the sounds that give me chills from my endless search.

Can you talk about your experience playing at the bar Istanbul and how that prompted you to share your music with the world?

It was a bar of a friend, and it was my first playground. I started to produce years before, but only later I understood that I want to DJ also, so I started there, in a small underground place in Tel Aviv that does not exist anymore, I have so many experiences from this place, It was very special to me.

How has your life changed since the success of your first single, “Gidafi Na”?

My life did not really change from that haha, but the feedback was amazing, and I received love from all over the world for this track, of course It gave me the drive to make more music, and keep on spreading my sounds wherever I can.

How would you define your sound and genre? You said that you want to make melodies you’ve never heard before — how do you accomplish that?

I can’t really define my own sound, and also can’t really fit it into a specific genre. I am influenced by many things, and always want to break the boundaries of what I think I know. It is also changing with time, but let’s say now I am in my off-pop area 🙂

What themes are present in your new album, Chances, and what do you hope people take away from it?

My debut album is kind of an ID of my taste, It has Electronica, R&B, Breakbeat, Trip hop, House, and groove elements in it. I hope people connect to the songs, and will want to listen to them over and over again.

You sample various different languages in your work. Why is this and what do you feel it accomplishes with your sound?

Samples are an independent world. You never know how It will end. I want my music to have no boundaries, but I am focusing on English on this album.

What was the decision behind releasing “Translator” as the first single? How did this set up for the album as a whole?

It was the first track that I created for the album, and I feel It kind of has a lot of what I am trying to say in one track. Even though the album Is very eclectic, I think this one Is kind of a representation of what I am trying to say.

Can you talk about the music video? How does it provide a visual depiction of the song?

The video was shot by one of my favorite directors, and one of Israels most wanted one Indy Hait. He is so talented, and when he said yes to the shoot, I was super happy. He is half Ukrainian, and lives there now, and he shot It there just a couple of weeks after the war started. We were surprised It was even possible to do It, so this video has a lot more feelings in it than you would expect.

What was the decision behind your collaborations and what did you gain by working with fellow artists?

I was just searching for good singers, some I found while searching online, some I know from other places, but I always have something In mind, and whenIt connects – It connects. You always gain something when you collaborate, you get different people with different vibes and different tastes, and it’s always refreshing.

Is there a track on the album that you’re particularly proud of?

All the tracks represent me somehow and I am very proud of all of them.

Do you have a career highlight thus far?

The album is definitely my career highlight, I am so excited it’s out after all this time, and can’t wait to see what will happen with it.