Source link : https://www.materiel-randonnee.info/product/vango-exodus-6020-sac-de-voyage-mixte-gris-60-20-litre/

Vango Exodus 60+20 Wheeled Rucksack

Make more of extended trips with the Exodus 60+20; the ideal companion for multi-stop journeys. Featuring a zip-away rucksack harness plus near silent wheels + handle, you ll travel with ease whether you re traveling by plane or city hopping on the train. This clever roller bag includes a detachable 20L, fully featured rucksack, with padded laptop sleeve, for when you reach your destination. The new Protex 4:2 fabric is super light and extra durable so it will be sure to last you journey after journey.

INFO

Protex 4:2 Fabric – An innovative new fabric from Vango. Made with 420D Ripstop polyester with 2 coatings of PU on the inner face and 4 PU coatings on the outer face providing the perfect lightweight and durable combination.

Keeps laptop safe and secure with retaining strap and internal padding. For laptops up to 16

Full zip access to main compartment – Provides quick access to pack contents

Organisation pocket – Keep essentials safe and easy to access

Zip mesh pocket inside the lid – Allows easy storage and identification of contents

High contrast, compressible internal straps – Keeps contents tidy and secure

Side Compression Straps – to secure your load

Central grab handle – For easy carrying and moving

Two wheeled chassis – With extendable handle for easy travelling

Side grab handle – for easy transportation

Duraflex buckles – Strong and reliable

Stow-away shoulder straps – Easy to store away and access when needed

Removable 20L day bag. Perfect for day trips when you reach your destination – Hydration compatible – Laptop compatible – Attaches to rucksack straps

SPECIFICATIONS

Weight:4.16kg

Rucksack Dimensions:L26.0 x H67.0 x W40.0cm

Volume:80.0 lt

ProTex 4 : 2 – Nouveau tissu innovant fabriqué en tissu renforcé en polyester indéchirable avec 2 revêtements de polyuréthane sur la face interne et 4 sur l’extérieur, une combinaison légère et durable

Deux châssis à roues avec poignée télescopique facilitant le transport

Fermeture Éclair accès au compartiment principal

Poche organiseur pour garder Essentials sûre et facile d’accès

Poignée centrale facilitant le transport

This post was originally published on 14/08/2020. The post Boutique first appeared on Matériel de Randonnée.

Author : campingetrandonnee

Publish date : 2023-04-19 08:26:21

Copyright for syndicated content belongs to the linked Source.