The Isotta Fraschini Tipo 6 LMH Competizione has completed its first rollout at Vallelunga, opening a new phase in the car’s development towards homologation for the FIA World Endurance Championship.

Michelotto test driver Maurizio Mediani turned the hybrid-powered prototype’s first laps in a shakedown session on Tuesday, having been part of simulator testing duties.

According to Isotta, the Tipo 6 ran for short bursts of one to three laps, then five to eight laps, with breaks in between for system checks and measurement taking.

The Michelotto-developed car, which uses a turbocharged V6 engine co-developed by the Italian engineering company and HWA, initially operated without the power from its 200 kW electric motor before the hybrid system was activated in the afternoon.

Prior to this week’s maiden track test, the Tipo 6 had been evaluated under wind tunnel, simulator and dyno conditions.

“The first time of our car with wheels on the asphalt is obviously an exciting sensation for everyone, starting with the technicians who built it, who were present and thus finally saw it on track,” said Isotta motorsport managing director Claudio Berro.

“For all of us, it was a good moment, also because the day went according to plan, with major stops to fine-tune the car and analyze the data.

“I would say that with the last few laps with the hybrid system activated completed the first day with satisfaction for all.”

Vector Sport was on-site at Vallelunga to run the Tipo 6 ahead of the British squad’s role as the official partner team of Isotta’s planned full-season WEC entry next year.

“[It was a] very pleasing day, with the first rollout of the test car that went relatively trouble-free and that’s very impressive,” said Vector team principal Gary Holland.

“That proves the caliber of the technical partners involved. We’re now looking forward to get the performance running done and hopefully the homologation process, looking forward to the race-by-race entry until the end of the year.

“I hope the ACO [WEC co-organizers] can see the effort and the trajectory we’re on, and can grant us the entry so we can compete against the other LMH teams.”

Berro told Sportscar365 last month that Isotta — a revived luxury automaker of the early 20th century — is planning to have a second test car running this summer.

He also said that the team would like to join the WEC grid this season but that such an outing is “not mandatory” if more private testing is needed before homologation.