CHICAGO, IL - Peak Realty’s team has begun pre-leasing for Portrait, a new-construction mixed-use property owned by Mavrek Development. Located at 948 W. Sunnyside Ave. in the trendy Uptown neighborhood, the building boasts 59 luxury apartments with sought-after resident amenities as well as approximately 6,500 square feet of first-floor retail space.

Shane Rachman, Peak Realty president, expressed his enthusiasm for the lease up and their ongoing work on redevelopments in the Uptown area.

"We are elated about this lease up and the opportunity to continue our work on redevelopments in the Uptown area. We are excited to work with the development team from Mavrek again, and we believe in their product. We look forward to the leasing experience at Portrait with them,” says Rachman.

The new apartment building has modern studios, one and two-bedroom floorplans, with some offering penthouse options. Each home has lots of natural light, modern finishes like hardwood floors, quartz countertops, custom cabinetry, and LG stainless steel appliances. There is also a dedicated workspace and full-size washers and dryers. Some layouts even have terraces.

The pet-friendly building has a co-working space with private offices, a fitness center, secured entry and elevator, and covered parking. Portrait is located near Lake Michigan paths and parks, as well as numerous dining, entertainment, retail, and transportation options in Uptown.

“I admire the fact that the developers have purposefully designed a modern product that complements the historic charm and theatrical history of the neighborhood,” says Mike Zucker, managing partner of Peak Properties LLC, Peak Realty’s sister company. “It’s not a big glass box but a thoughtfully built property in a fantastic location.”

Applications are accepted now for rentals with expected delivery beginning June 2023. Visit www.portraituptown.com for leasing information and to schedule a tour.

About Peak Realty: Peak Realty is a boutique, full-service real estate brokerage firm specializing in Chicago’s and Denver’s neighborhoods. With a deep understanding of each neighborhood’s personality and nuance, the talented team of real estate brokers successfully guide clients from leasing to purchasing the right home when ready to invest. Peak Realty initially began as the leasing arm to Peak Properties, LLC, a full-service property management company, and now offers a full slate of sales and marketing services to complement a strong leasing base. Visit peakrealtychicago.com and follow on social @peakrealty.

About Peak Properties, LLC: Founded by Mike Zucker in 1998, Peak Properties is a full-service, privately held management and investment firm redefining Chicago’s real estate market. Today a team of 100+ professionals with over 250 years of real estate experience provide comprehensive, hands-on real estate services including management of over $3 billion in multifamily and commercial real estate. For more information, visit peakproperties.biz and follow on social @PeakPropChicago.