Good morning everyone and welcome to Wednesday’s Morning Open Thread.

Morning Open Thread is a daily, copyrighted post from a host of editors and guest writers. We support our community, invite and share ideas, and encourage thoughtful, respectful dialogue in an open forum.

I’ve come to think of this post as one where you come for the music and stay for the conversation—so feel free to drop a note.

Only Wednesday, sure, but that’s about halfway done with the week for me—and a beautiful week it’s been this far. Over the weekend, a front moved in edged with chaos and rain. The sort of storms that uprooted trees, took out swaths of power, and made ill-fitted windows even harder to open and close.

But since about midday Sunday the weather has been delightfully constant and wonderfully temperate. We don’t get many such days (much less consecutive runs) so you can imagine the mood here on the coast of Louisiana is one of under-guarded optimism, or (more realistically) a less-jaded apocalyptic determinism. We don’t, as a community, harbor much hope for the betterment of humankind or the salvation of this planet. Keeps us from bearing the burden of certain disappointment.

Which brings me to the Fox/Dominion settlement. I know these are business decisions for the parties involved, but I’ll admit I was looking forward to the unsurprising but shocking evidence that would have come out over the course of the trial. Still, Dominion has six remaining suits against various parties, so there is still hope of such guilty entertainment.

In civil litigation, principle is a tool that presents grave risk of self-injury. It should generally take a back seat in settlement negotiations. But given the principals involved in the remaining suits (Powell, Giuliani, and Lindell, among others), I’ll store away a bit of today’s optimism for the blistering days of summer that are, without doubt, just beyond the horizon.

Cheers and I hope everyone has a lovely day.

Be well, be kind, and appreciate the love you have in your life.

Grab your coffee or tea and join us, please.

What's on your mind this morning?