The warrant was published in the local media and listed the perpetrators with their full names and dates of birth. It also listed their potential locations. For Juric, the court stated that his location was “unknown”, although in the judgment itself, the judge stated that Juric lives and works in a neighbouring country.

The warrant was reported by several online media outlets in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but the victim, Lola (not her real name) only heard about it when I informed her while working on my forthcoming book, Lola’s War, a study of the legacies of wartime rape trials using a one-woman story to highlight the systemic failures to prosecute and sentence wartime rapists in Bosnia and Herzegovina.

Soon after the court released the warrant for Juric, the International Criminal Police Organisation, Interpol, published a ‘red notice’ calling for his arrest.

Red notices are requests to law enforcement bodies in Interpol member countries around the world to arrest wanted individuals so they can be extradited, although member countries can decide whether to do this or not.

Eighteen months after the Bosnian court’s warrant and Interpol’s red notice were issued, Juric has still not been arrested.

He is probably in Croatia as he has Croatian citizenship as well as citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, even if Croatia arrests Juric, it is highly unlikely that the government in Zagreb would agree to hand him over due to the unwillingness of the state to cooperate with Bosnia and Herzegovina in the extradition of war criminals.

There is at least one case in which the Croatian authorities released a convicted war criminal after he arrived on their territory. The criminal, Marko Radic, had been transferred from Bosnia and Herzegovina to serve his sentence in Croatia.

Bosnia and Herzegovina is a member of European Convention on the Transfer of Sentenced Persons, which says that any convicted person has a right to serve all or part of his or her sentence in the state of which he or she is a citizen.

Transfers between Bosnia and Herzegovina and other states are made each year under the convention. Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina have also signed a memorandum about mutual execution of court decisions in criminal cases.

Radic was sentenced to 21 years in prison for war crimes and crimes against humanity, and after serving seven years of his sentence in Bosnia and Herzegovina prison, he was transferred to Croatia on approval of the then Minister of Justice Josip Grubes.

Once transferred, Radic was then released after serving only two months in prison. It remains unclear why he was transferred to Croatia since he was also a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina and so was already serving his sentence in his country of origin.