Enjoy my latest installment of Random Things: April 2023. From random things on my mind to what I’m reading or watching, here is a peak at my April.

I have always found it difficult to completely disconnect from my blog and social media. There is a bit of fear associated with what can happen if I am not tending to something I have worked so hard to build. However, it’s both normal and healthy to step away from work (even though this is partially pleaseure) to spend time with family.

Last week we went to visit Brandon’s family in Tennessee for Easter and our daughters’ spring break. I brought my laptop with every intention of letting the grandparents babysit while I did a little writing. But I never unpacked my laptop. The only bit of work I did was on social media because it is much easier to upload snippets of life.

I am HERE for the sunshine. I’ve never enjoyed spending time outdoors because allergies/heat/bugs, but as spring settles in I’m finding myself outside more and more. It’s like my mind and body needs the sun!We missed the bulk of our Forsythias blooming while we were away, but we have noticed the trees turning green overnight. It is so amazing to watch!I’m trying my hand at filling two big planters with flowers and hope it works out. I’m using this Planting Garden Planters Three Ways post as reference. The last time I put flowers in a planter they were dead in a month. Brandon has been waiting for one our girls to take interest in basketball (he used to play in high school) – and both Annabelle and Ailey are suddenly big fans. I think watching Father of the Bride gave Annabelle a big push on playing with her Dad! We bought this basketball hoop and can’t wait to try it out in the driveway!Arbor also enjoys spending time outside but she is a runner. Do they make pop-up fencing for babies? I don’t know how I will keep her contained because she has no fear of cars or falling on the pavement!I want to wallpaper our dining room walls above the chair rail. I have a peel-and-stick sample I love but have yet to bite the bullet. Here’s to hoping next month I will be sharing a before/after!Update on the family room project: we had to hit pause because our deck needs my brother-in-law the carpenter’s attention! We still want to build a window seat or add two chairs though.Last September we went to Sound on Sound for my birthday weekend – I was SO excited to see my favorites Dave Matthews Band and Stevie Nicks. It was – however – the most poorly organized and worst music festival I have ever been to. This year’s birthday weekend my other favorite band, The 1975, is headlining at the Life is Beautiful Music & Art Festival in Last Vegas. We are heavily considering a birthday trip to Vegas but I’m scared we will have a repeat concert disaster like last year! What would you do?

Watching: Yellowjackets Season 2 and The Night Agent on Netflix. Watching: I just finished School Spirits on Paramount + and hope they renew for a second season. I have so many questions! It’s a great show about a girl who wakes up in her high school to find out she has been murdered – but doesn’t know how or by who!Reading: “Blindsighted” by Karin Slaughter is a page turner! It’s thrilling, suspenseful, and also a great storyline.Listening: I can’t stop listening to The 1975 – they are such a happy band!Drinking: Last summer when we were at Basin Harbor the server suggested I try adding fresh jalapeños to my glass of Rosé. It was SO delicious and refreshing with just the right amount of heat. Now that the weather is warming up, see how I’m sipping it here on the weekends.