The All Progressives Congress (APC) Governorship Candidate in the just concluded protracted Governorship election in Adamawa, Senator Aishatu Dahiru Ahmed (Binani) has apparently made a U-turn in the chase for the position, saying “I am not do-or-die politician” .

She made the declaration after a futile attempt and failed stage managed processes spearheaded by the now suspended Adamawa state Resident Electoral Commissioner, Hudu Yunusa Ari, who prematurely and in absence of the duly appointed Returning Officer, had announced her as the winner of the election even when the collation of results were yet to be completed.

But after the Intervention of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) headquarters which culminated in the nullification of her result and conclusion of the collation exercise, giving rise to the emergence of the incumbent governor, Ahmadu Fintiri as the winner on Tuesday, Binani in a statement denied alleged bribe of N2 Billion alleged to have influenced the shoddy deal by Yunusa Ari.

In her statement, Binani said: My attention has been drawn to a very bizarre, unfounded wild allegations purportedly made by an officer of the Department of State Services (DSS) to the effect that, I Senator Aishatu Dahiru Ahmed ( Binani) gave out the Sum of N2billion  to procure a favourable declaration as Governor-Elect to some unnamed INEC staff. I NEVER DID, I would never do such.

This said statement was allegedly made when the officer was being tortured at gunpoint by the agents of the Adamawa State Governor and the Government House police team alongside their political thugs.

I wish to reiterate that I am a democrat, I have always been a committed democrat and will never do anything to subvert democratic process. I am not do-or-die politician. In the past I have won elections into the House of Representatives and the Senate in a free and fair manner.

What happened in Adamawa was an unsuccessful attempt to subvert the will of the people. The REC was illegally told to stand down by two INEC national commissioners from Abuja who were supposed to be in Adamawa in a supervisory capacity. Even more curious is the nocturnal visit of some  INEC national officers to Adamawa State Government house and bizarre declaration same day after the visit that they have taken over the collation through the backdoor, with the Collation and Returning Officers selected by the Governor of Adamawa.

The roles of these INEC officers from Abuja and the real mission of the two to the Government House should be of interest to all democrats.

I urge all lovers of democracy to take a deeper interest in our electoral process and democracy not only in Adamawa but in the whole country.

Meanwhile to all my supporters both within and outside Adamawa, I wish to use this opportunity to thank you for your unflinching support, in the midst of half-truths and opposition smear propaganda.