Wabash College is asking its campus, community, and friends around the world to join together in their support for students during its 10th annual Day of Giving on Wednesday, April 19.

Wabash has set as its goal to receive more than 5,010 gifts by midnight, unlocking more than $510,000 in challenge gifts for students and their life-changing education.

Combining the ideas of crowd funding, affinity challenges, and the buzz of social media, the #AlwaysWabash effort hopes to inspire participation and strengthen ties to the College.

“I was particularly pleased to learn that the theme for the 10th Day of Giving is #AlwaysWabash,” said President Feller. “As I have traveled around the country this year, I’ve met with alumni who graduated last year and some who graduated more than half a century ago, yet the stories they tell about their professors, classes, and teammates have the same familiar themes. That cements for me that young and old, near and far, we will always be for Wabash. Always.”

Donations made on the 10th Day of Giving will help deliver the College’s enduring and transformational liberal arts experience to students.

On Wednesday, the Wabash campus will enjoy a variety of events throughout the day to inspire excitement and engagement, including lunch and activities in Chadwick Court and an afternoon gathering on the Stephenson Plaza at Little Giant Stadium.

Alumni across the country will also be hosting get-togethers and after-work socials.

Last year, the College broke records on its ninth-annual Day of Giving, receiving 5,307 gifts and raising more than $1.4 million. In the 24-hour fundraising effort to support students, the Wabash Nation broke records for total amount raised and the average amount raised per student, $1,744, which was $100 more per student than the 2021 figure.

Anyone can participate in the 10th Day of Giving by following these four steps: make a gift, convince others to do the same, spread the word through your social networks with the hashtag #Always Wabash, and enjoy the excitement and success.

Gifts made on the 10th Day of Giving will be allocated to the Annual Fund, unless otherwise noted in the comments section on the giving form found on the website. Those gifts also count as contributions to the Giant Steps Campaign, the largest fundraising campaign in Wabash’s 191-year history.