Raymond Wong: Policies and promises have done nothing to make housing affordable   Opinion: We also learned last month that Canada's five biggest banks are helping to keep house listings at record lows.

THIS CONTENT IS RESERVED FOR SUBSCRIBERS ONLY Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.  Exclusive articles by top sports columnists Patrick Johnston, Ben Kuzma, J. J. Abrams and others. Plus, Canucks Report, Sports and Headline News newsletters and events. Unlimited online access to The Province and 15 news sites with one account. The Province ePaper, an electronic replica of the print edition to view on any device, share and comment on. Daily puzzles and comics, including the New York Times Crossword.      Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.  Exclusive articles by top sports columnists Patrick Johnston, Ben Kuzma, J.J. Abrams and others. Plus, Canucks Report, Sports and Headline News newsletters and events. Unlimited online access to The Province and 15 news sites with one account. The Province ePaper, an electronic replica of the print edition to view on any device, share and comment on. Daily puzzles and comics, including the New York Times Crossword.      Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience.  Access articles from across Canada with one account. Share your thoughts and join the conversation in the comments.  Get email updates from your favourite authors.

We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or

tap here to see other videos from our team.     Raymond Wong: Policies and promises have done nothing to make housing affordable       Under extreme pressure, then B. C. Liberal premier Christy Clark implemented a foreign buyers’ tax. After the 2017 B.C. provincial election, the NDP took over and implemented a speculation and vacancy tax, a land transparency registry, and a public inquiry on money laundering. Prices of homes were gradually coming down. Many Canadians, including homeowners, were cheering for it.

Sign up to receive The Canucks Report newsletter, delivered straight to your inbox at the start of every series. Essential reading for hockey fans who eat, sleep, Canucks, repeat.         There was an error, please provide a valid email address.        By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails or any newsletter. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300    Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Canucks Report will soon be in your inbox.   We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again

Then came the pandemic in 2020. Bank of Canada Governor Tiff Macklem increased the money supply by 23 per cent through quantitative easing, which is an economic stimulus program that creates asset inflation. Then, on July 15, 2020, he sparked a buying frenzy, encouraging Canadians to borrow and speculate in real estate, when he promised that interest rates would remain low until 2023. This created a further affordability crisis. On top of that, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau decided to encourage massive immigration during the pandemic with no plans for how to house these immigrants.

In every federal election, every party makes promises on affordable housing, like building the right supply. But elected politicians make promises, then usually do the following: Create a popular policy, like the current federal foreign buyer ban, but put in legalized loopholes — international students and temporary foreign workers are exempt, as an example. They seem to make one policy that makes it appear they are doing something, while loosening other policies to stimulate the market. A perfect example would be during the last federal election when the Conservatives promised a foreign buyer ban but then said they would allow first-time buyers to withdraw more money from their RRSP accounts — which would stimulate the market.

We also learned last month that Canada’s five biggest banks are helping to keep house listings at record lows. They have agreed to reduce the pressure on people facing rising mortgage rates to put their homes on the market, which would have increased the number of homes for sale and potentially reduced prices.  When the Bank of Canada increased its trend-setting interest rates last year, it looks as if the big five banks, coordinating together, suddenly made things easier for many mortgage holders by allowing their amortizations to stretch out to 35 years, without them having to pay a penalty. CIBC and TD now report one of out four of their mortgages are at or above 35 years amortization. The message is clear. Most levels of government, the Bank of Canada, and the big five banks aren’t interested in making real estate, rents, or any type of housing affordable.

‘IT WAS A MISTAKE:’ Anheuser-Busch loses more than $5B amid Dylan Mulvaney controversy

This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.