CHICAGO — Have you ever heard the sort of analytical approach to situational offensive execution, where all the percentages will even out in the end, so just let your hitters hit, fire off their A-swings and trust that the results will be there at the end of the year, regardless of individual game situations that pop up along the way?

White Sox manager Pedro Grifol certainly has. There was a pretty clear reference to that line of thought in his comments after his team’s ninth-inning rally in their season-opening win in Houston, where he pushed back at the idea of interfering with a rally strung together by the likes of Tim Anderson, Luis Robert Jr. and Andrew Vaughn, with this line: “The last thing I want to do there is start over-managing and give away outs.”

But that’s not his default stance. His default stance is that there cannot be a default stance in run creation.

“I think that eventually it does balance out, but there’s times where — we can get into a long discussion on this,” Grifol began. “When you talk about analytics, they talk about large sample sizes. And if you talk to analytical hitting coaches, they’ll tell you that situational baseball and moving runners over is not that effective. Because at the end of the year, if you look at the large sample size, it all evens out. And my rebuttal to that is, ‘Did it help us win today? Today’s game? Did we move a runner over to get him to third to drive him in?’ I don’t want to hear about the large sample size, I want to hear about what happened today. So I think it’s a little bit of both.

“I think you’ve got to manage that. There’s times where you go ahead and hit away, that’s what the game calls for, and then there’s time for, ‘You’ve got to put the ball in play, you’ve got to move a runner over, you’ve got to bunt a runner over.’ That’s just to win today’s baseball game. There’s nothing black and white in this game. Nothing. Everything is kind of gray. There’s nothing you can stamp on, ‘This is how this game needs to be run, this is how this game needs to be played.’ Because we do this every day, and every day is a different game and has got a different tempo, different rhythm. And every game needs something different to be done to be able to win it.”

Grifol was speaking in the wake of a Friday night loss, where he felt squandering the chance to blow open the game in the sixth inning, when the Sox were up 3-0 and had the bases loaded with one out and could not add, left the door ajar for the Orioles’ 6-3 come-from-behind victory. Execution with runners in scoring position — for both his pitchers and hitters — has been a postgame focus of Grifol through the difficulties of a 6-9 start. Especially as Anderson, Yoán Moncada and Eloy Jiménez have all been sidelined at points, and the approach of just letting his best hitters cook has become harder to stick with. After a torrid start, the 4.67 runs per game averaged by the Sox through Saturday are a touch below league average.

And for much of Saturday afternoon’s topsy-turvy 7-6 win in 10 innings over Baltimore — alongside a continuing blizzard of walks from an embattled White Sox pitching staff — a lack of execution with runners in scoring position looked to be the reason Grifol’s team would lose again and drop behind the rebuilding Detroit Tigers in the American League Central standings. For the first nine innings, the White Sox went 0-for-9 with runners in scoring position.

“I think anytime we’re going into extra innings, it’s, ‘Hey, it’s go time.'” said Jake Burger, who lined the second of three straight hits the Sox fired off with RISP in the 10th. “You get that focus there. But you’re going to go through games where the first three innings you’re hitting really well with runners in scoring position and the last six you’re not. It just took us till the end, and obviously we came through.”

“That’s what we are capable of,” Grifol said. “We just have to focus. There’s a lot of talent on this team. We just have to focus and let it come to us as opposed to kind of expanding the zone a little bit. That’s what we did in the last three at-bats with runners in scoring position. We did a nice job with that.”

But the impetus for Grifol explaining his philosophy was a question about whether performance with runners in scoring position evens out for teams, or is reflective of their own separate approach for those situations. Some days hits drop in, and some days they don’t. The Sox actually entered Saturday as the sixth-best offense in the league with runners in scoring position, batting .287/.350/.450 in those situations before trying to undo all their hard work in the first nine innings. Their lack of execution was showing up in another way.

Andrew Benintendi led off the bottom of the first Saturday with an infield single, then scooted to third base on a throwing error by Orioles starter Kyle Gibson. There, after Robert grounded out sharply to third and Gibson worked back from a 3-0 count to strike out Vaughn, Benintendi remained as Jiménez grounded out to end the inning. At that point, it was the 22nd time in 33 chances that the Sox offense had gotten a runner to third with less than two outs and stranded them. After posting the fourth-worst conversion rate in these situations last season, the Sox entered Saturday with the second-worst rate in MLB this year.

When you talk about these types of numbers, as Grifol would note, you would like to have large sample sizes. If the Cubs keep up their near-80 percent conversion rate from the first two weeks for an entire season, they would probably set a record by a lot. But the ingredients cited for why this very similar Sox lineup struggled at this last year — poor plate discipline, ground-ball tendencies — have not meaningfully changed even with an overhauled coaching staff. The White Sox entered Saturday tied for the MLB lead in swing rate on pitches outside the strike zone, and they lead the American League in ground-ball rate. That’s why Burger elevating a ball for a fourth-inning sacrifice fly was such a welcome sight, and why Vaughn defusing a runners-at-the-corners opportunity with an inning-ending double play in the fifth was cause for him to slam his helmet into the dirt.

“I’m hitting a few more balls into the ground than I’d like to,” said Vaughn, who has raised his hands in his stance to try to create a more fly-ball-heavy swing path, but has mostly seen the gains come in his plate discipline so far in a mostly excellent start to the year. “That’s the biggest thing. I just want to swing at good pitches. I don’t want to be chasing out of the zone or swinging at pitches that I shouldn’t. That way I’m either taking my walk or getting a pitch to hit.”

So Oscar Colás striding up to the plate in the 10th inning with the winning run at third and no one out represented a chance for the Sox to break even for the day on their conversions. He’s also a rookie so eager that Grifol said he was pressing even in spring training, one who has been seeing precious few fastballs (37.4 percent per FanGraphs) and has been chasing out of the zone at the third-highest rate in the sport in the early portion of his promising career. He got a first-pitch changeup that split the plate and ripped the game winner to right.

“It was definitely a very tense moment,” Colás said through an interpreter. “But I went up there looking to make good contact. Because I knew with the runner on third base, if I was able to make good contact I was going to be able to bring him in.”