Don’t own a Kindle? Download the FREE Amazon Kindle App for your mobile device or pc

Pony Boy

Everyone has a past. Mine was the standard American dream. I grew up on the right side of town, had the right set of parents, went to all the right schools, and even got one of those fancy degrees. My life was meaningless until I started riding. It was then I found my calling and became a Royal Bastard. I was content to bang a new girl every night and be the playboy. Then I am forced to protect Brooke and somewhere along the way the lines turn blurry. The life I told myself I did not want suddenly became the life I crave.

Brooke

They say when you grow up with the perfect childhood your life turns to crap at some point. I happen to agree with this statement. I was just minding my own business and working my way through the chains in the ER when all of that came crashing down. When the life I thought was perfect, was turned upside down and everything I thought I knew was a lie. Now my life is in danger, and it is up to a local MC to keep me safe. Now I have a bodyguard that I hate but at the same time he makes me want to ride it. His pony, I mean his Harley.

REVIEW: RIDE IT, MY PONY is the second instalment and novella in Kristine Duggar’s contemporary, adult RBMC: OMAHA CHAPTER erotic, MC romance story line, and the introduction to the author’s new Mafia Series focusing on the Chicago Irish Mob. This is Dr. Brooke Lancaster and RBMC SAA Chase ‘Pony Boy’ Montgomery’s story line. RIDE IT, MY PONY cover approximately twenty-four hours.

Told from dual first person perspectives (Chase and Brooke) RIDE IT, MY PONY follows in the wake of an accident wherein Chase ‘Pony Boy’ Montgomery will meet his future in the guise of Dr. Brooke Lancaster but upon his release, Pony Boy receives a new assignment, guarding the biological daughter of the Chicago Irish Mob-Dr. Brooke Lancaster. Brooke has no idea that she is the daughter of the next leader of the Chicago Mob, having grown up with two parents she always believed were her blood but the past has resurfaced, and Brooke has been targeted for her biological father’s sins, and the RBMC have been tasked with protecting our story line heroine. What ensues is the quick building, lust to love relationship between Brooke and Chase, and the potential fall-out as the threats hit too close to home.

The relationship between Chase and Brooke begins as frenemies when Chase’s over the top, misogynistic flirting pushes all of Brooke’s buttons. Believing Chase is nothing more than a gang-banger and roughian, she has no idea that ‘Pony Boy’ is from a well to do family, with a university education but a man who wants our story line heroine. Desperate to protect the woman with whom he is falling in love Chase must prove himself worthy to the next ‘king’ of the Chicago Irish Mob. The $ex scenes are intimate, fast and furious.

We are introduced to several members of the RBMC: Omaha Chapter including their president The Irishman, and his very pregnant wife Sapphire, as well as Brooke’s parents David and Meredith Lancaster, and her biological father Sebastian O’Farrell.

RIDE IT, MY PONY is a quick read; a fast paced story of secrets and lies, family and relationships, betrayal and vengeance, insta-lust to love. The premise is captivating; the romance is limited due to the nature of the story; the characters are energetic and dynamic. RIDE IT, MY PONY ends on a bit of a cliff hanger-Brooke and Chase’s story will continue with the Kristine Duggar’s new co-authored/ sponsored spin off Irish Mafia romance series.