Grandparents can make a difference. Grandparents can help their grandchildren navigate the rapid cultural shifts we are experiencing. The enemy is undermining God’s design for our grandchildren by filling our headlines and social media feeds with a worldview. However, God has begun a powerful movement to awaken Christian grandparents and spiritually impact the next generation.

In the book by Dr. Josh Mulvihill, Biblical Worldview, In the book, you will find how to establish the foundation in the life of a child. You may ask, “What is a Biblical Worldview?” The biblical worldview is a set of beliefs about life that determines how we live—a biblical worldview of Christ.” Dr. Mulivihiill also writes, “There is a battle for the hearts and minds of children, and much is at stake. The World is working diligently to assimilate your people into its thinking and living. We must intentionally nurture, cultivate, and persuade children to embrace the authority of Scripture and the lordship of Christ”. 1

We are experiencing much the World offers in our schools, friends, and the sexual revolution. “Biblical worldview matters. It is worthy of your time and attention. Every child will believe something, based on some authority, that will guide their decisions and direction in life and authority. Worldview matters because every child develops their view of God, creation, sin, hell, salvation, marriage, gender, money, work, abortion, climate change, government, the church, and a long list of topics.” Since our World is in moral and spiritual decline, we battle for the minds and hearts of older grandchildren. The enemy is trying to steal their lives and God’s plans. The enemy is trying to steal their faith, and the enemy is trying to destroy the morals of our country, especially the family unit. The media-driven culturing is desensitizing our grandchildren.

By reflecting on our love for God, share how he has blessed us as we have walked with him and continue to grow in our relationship with him.

God chose us for our specific children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren. We are not living in past generations or future generations. We are living in this present generation with God’s purpose. He gave us an instruction book, God’s Word, to follow.

I invite you to use the resource in the book “Grandparenting with a Purpose, Effective Ways to Pray for Your Grandchildren.” available on this website. Many grandparents have read the book and found it very helpful.

The book, Biblical Worldview is available on the Christian Grandparenting website.

PS: Last week’s blog listed suggestions for praying for different age groups.