The Western Australia flamboyant batter Cameron Bancroft relished a phenomenal outing with the bat in the Sheffield Shield 2022/23 season, emerging as the leading run-getter. Despite this, the batter could likely be out of the mix for the forthcoming WTC Final and the all-important Ashes 2023, as per reports.

It is understood that veteran southpaw David Warner is likely to make the cut for the 17 or 18-player squad for the World Test Championship (WTC) Final against India, and the first two Ashes Tests against England at Edgbaston and Lord’s. The Aussies will play fierce rivals, India, for the coveted mace from June 7, at the Oval in London followed by the vital series against England, starting on June 16.

Furthermore, the national selectors of Australia will reveal the squad on Wednesday (April 19), which will feature in both series. However, as per reports by The West Australian, the squad is likely to have three West Aussies which will be led by star all-rounder Cameron Green. In addition to this, Bancroft could likely be out of contention to participate in the crucial matches against India and England.

For the unversed, Bancroft recorded the most number of runs in the recently concluded Sheffield Shield 2022/23 season. The 30-year-old keeper-batter aggregated 945 runs in 11 outings, lacing it with four tons and one half-century at an average of 59.06.

Despite getting a mountain of runs in the competition, the batter could be down the pecking order for a spot in the national team. However, former Australia cricketer Mark Taylor opined on wanting to see the batter back into the squad in the top order ahead of the series.

"My old way of thinking, I always like a right-and-left-handed combination. So, I would love to see Cameron Bancroft get another opportunity at the top of the order. Bancroft has made a heap of runs in the Australian summer," Taylor was quoted as saying by the ESPNcricinfo.

One thing I do like about Bancroft, which I also like about (Matt) Renshaw, is their ability to catch in the field. In the next year or two, we're going to need to find two openers,” the legendary former Australia skipper concluded.