Welcome to Confections & Reputations! Thanks to all those that have subscribed since my last newsletter, whether you are here for the science history or the science fiction. On average, about 10 per cent of free Substack subscribers convert to paying subscriptions. Confections & Reputations has less than a quarter of that at the moment. So if you value Confections & Reputations and can afford $8 per month so I can keep writing it, you can upgrade your subscription by clicking the button below or send me a one-off tip via Cash App.

Now, onwards to your weekend read…

Who invented the modern computer? The answer to that question depends, broadly speaking, on who you ask. One view, most commonly espoused by philosophers, computer scientists and mathematicians, is that Alan Turing was the progenitor because with his 1936 paper ‘On Computable Numbers’ (PDF), Turing formalised the idea that a single machine could carry out any task for which a precise set of instructions could be written.

Another view, most commonly held by historians, who tend to be anchored in material reality rather than in the diaphanous realms of mathematical logic, is that while computing devices were invented many times over, the stored-program computer, in the form that I’m typing this on or that you carry around in your pocket, has a specific locus of origin.

That story begins with the ENIAC, the world’s first programmable, electronic, general-purpose digital computer which spang to life in December 1945 at the University of Pennsylvania's Moore School of Electrical Engineering. The brainchild of John W. Mauchly (pronounced ‘Mockly’), a former physics teacher, J. Presper Eckert, the electronics whizz-kid son of a local real estate magnate, the ENIAC was intially built to compute artillery firing tables. Mathematician John von Neuman joined the project by chance in 1944 and distilled the team’s thoughts on the design of the ENIAC’s successor, the EDVAC, into a draft report which was widely circulated by mathematician Herman Goldstine, the army’s liason to the ENIAC project, without the knowledge of von Neumann, Mauchly or Eckert. The EDVAC report (PDF) is now considered the birth certificate of the modern computer and angered Mauchly and Eckert greatly because, first, only von Neumann’s name was on its cover and, second, its dissemination by Goldstine would ultimately help to scupper their plans to patent aspects of the ENIAC’s design.

This is Mauchly, responding to an article in ‘Datamation’ by Nancy Stern about the stored program concept in 1979 i.e. more than 20 years after von Neumann’s death from cancer…

Johnny learned instantly, of course, as was his nature.  But he chose to refer to the modules we had described as “organs” and to substitute hypothetical “neurons” for hypothetical vacuum tubes or other devices which could perform logical functions.  It was clear that Johnny was rephrasing our logic, but it was still the SAME logic.  Also, he was introducing different but equivalent symbols; nevertheless the devices still did the same things.  Johnny did NOT alter the fundamental concepts which we had already formulated for the EDVAC.

Not everyone agreed with Mauchly’s  assessment though.

Arthur Burks, a mathematician turned engineer who worked on both the ENIAC and von Neumann’s IAS computer, later scrutinized the written records from the period to trace the evolution of the stored program idea. “I do not think any of us at the Moore School had an architectural model in mind for the EDVAC until we learned of Johnny’s,” he said.

Likewise, Goldstine concluded that “It is obvious that von Neumann, by writing his report, crystallized thinking in the field of computers as no other person ever did. He was, among all members of the group at the Moore School, the indispensable one.”

Unsurprisingly, the ENIAC team split shortly afterwards, Mauchly and Eckert founding their own computing company and von Neumann and Goldstine leaving to build their own computer at the Institute for Advanced Study (IAS) in Princeton. From their berth at the IAS, the pair regularly sent detailed progress reports to nearly 200 institutions, helping to spawn the first generation of modern computers. The IAS machine finally roared into life in 1951, by which time it had been overtaken by its own progeny. This is von Neumann, posing in front of the IAS computer with Robert Oppenheimer in October 1952. Oppenheimer served as director of the IAS from 1947 until 1966.

In the meantime, von Neumann, frustrated by how long his own project was taking, hit upon the idea of converting the ENIAC into a primitive stored-program computer like the one he had described in the EDVAC report. The ENIAC’s famous team of female programmers and Klára Dán, von Neumann’s wife, would rewire the computer in April, 1948. Dán would also write the world’s first modern computer programs for the ENIAC in its new guise.

Turing, on the other hand, never built a fully functional modern computer. He did design one, the Automatic Computing Engine (ACE), in late 1945 at the National Physical Laboratory (NPL) in Teddington but only after seeing the EDVAC report and deciding that the “mechanisms proposed for EDVAC are appropriate for his ideas”. Only a cut-down version of Turing’s design, the Pilot ACE, was ever built and Turing left the NPL two years before that computer ran its first program in May, 1950

‘On Computable Numbers’, historians argue, was only appropriated by computer science from around the late-1950s, when the theoretical foundations of the new field were being laid. Many working on building the first computers had no knowledge of it at all and would not have found it much help anyway, given that it was a work of mathematical logic and not a blueprint for a computer.

Researcher Mark Priestley is a co-author of ENIAC in Action, a book I drew on for my chapter on computers in The Man from the Future. Here’s what he says about the influence of Turing’s paper:

The existence of universal machines shows something interesting, namely that the process of following explicit written orders is effectively computable, and hence that program-following machines can be built, I suppose. What's seems to be forgotten by Turing boosters is that no-one ever doubted this: Zuse and Aiken had started projects to do just that in the mid-30s. Turing's universal machine proof is ‘simple and neat’, as von Neumann said, but I find it hard to believe that it gave anyone an ‘aha moment’ about the possibility of actually building machines.

John Womersley, the superintendent of the NPL’s Mathematics Division, recruited Turing to the NPL and had visited the ENIAC during a fact-finding tour in February, 1945. Here what he had to say about their ACE project:

Game over for the Turing boosters, you might think. Not so, they say. For while Turing was aware of secret British work on computing machines thanks to his wartime codebreaking at Bletchley Park, Womersley falsely believed the ACE design was based on the EDVAC report and the various projects he had visited in the United States.

Furthermore, those who argue for Turing say that von Neumann was fully aware of his paper (in fact, they occupied offices down the corridor from one another at Princeton University when Turing got the proofs of his paper) and they were both interested in the contemporary foundational questions in logic that Turing’s paper addressed. As this seems rather likely (we know Turing was an admirer of von Neumann’s work and von Neumann cited Turing’s paper repeatedly in his later lectures on automata theory), the best hope for Turing boosters is to demonstrate that von Neumann had the British logician’s universal machine in mind when he set out the canonical design of the modern computer. Another angle of attack is to intimate that Turing and von Neumann had some sort of crucial meeting during the Second World War, when von Neumann was sent to Britain on a secret mission for the Royal Navy.

Now, the battle continues! Turing’s most passionate advocate, philosopher Jack Copeland, founded and maintains an internet Turing archive and has written and edited several volumes on the British logician’s contributions to computing. He is the co-author, with Zhao Fan, of a new paper on the relationship between Turing and von Neumann.

We revisit an established debate about the extent to which, if at all, ideas from mathematical logic impacted the development of the electronic computer, and we discuss the implications of Turing’s work in the philosophy and foundations of mathematics for this debate. One question we address in considerable detail is the crucial one of whether Turing’s logical ideas influenced von Neumann, as he pioneered the electronic computer in the U. S. We present a new analysis and fresh conclusions.

That’s fighting talk! I’ll examine Copeland’s claims in my next post on the genealogy of the modern computer.

If you enjoyed this post please give it a ‘like’ and consider paying something to subscribe. Comment on this post below or you can talk to me via email ananyo@substack.com or on Twitter @ananyo.