A fashion lover has divided thousands after she shared which styling trends she hates 'with her life'.

Zoe, from Victoria, works in brand collaborations for one of Australia's biggest clothing companies and shared the fashion trends she wants to see die out.

The 19-year-old said she sees different trends all the time in her line of work and 'cannot stand' flower claw clips, lounge sets with brand names or slogans in bubble font and white or yellow painted nails.

More trends that Zoe slammed included short cowboy boots, bikinis that look like lingerie, sweat shorts with matching t-shirts and those who rolls up their jeans at the ankle.

Zoe's controversial takes caused a stir as many were quick to disagree saying they loved some of the trends she mentioned, specifically white nails.

'As someone who works in fashion I get to see a lot of different trends all the time and these are the ones I absolutely hate,' Zoe said in a TikTok clip.

'If you're invested in them, go off but I absolutely cannot stand them.'

The first trend on Zoe's no-go list was large flower or clear hair clips.

'Do I even need to explain myself? These claw clips - ew. And the see through ones,' she said.

Second on her list was slouchy clothing with words in 'oversized puff' fonts in bright colours like the popular White Fox lounge sets many are loving.

'You will never ever see me in one of these, three out of ten,' Zoe said.

'I know this one's not fashion but yellow and white nails need to die. Don't even get me started on a statement nail - absolutely zero minus a hundred thousand out of ten.'

Zoe also slammed nail art with 'squiggles' saying: 'Kill it, kill the squiggle'.

The fashion worker's comment about nail art caused the most stir among viewers as many swear they will never let the white nail trend go while others thought it had been outdated for years.

'Statement nails will forever be the perfect thing to get,' one woman said and another agreed: 'I simply must get a statement nail every time

'Agree with everything but the 'squiggle' nail art, it's cute! I didn't even know people still get the statement nail.. surely not,' a third wrote.

While many thought Zoe's trend opinions were 'valid' and 'accurate' others were outraged by her slamming flower claw clips.

'You can pry the flower claw clips out of my cold dead hands,' one viewer replied.

'Nooo the flower claw clip is everything,' added a second.

Despite the anger Zoe's trend-hating caused, she reminded people to dress and style themselves however they feel comfortable and happy.

The heated discussion prompted Zoe to do another clip with more trends she doesn't like starting with short cowboy boots first in the firing line.

'Contender number one, I loved a cowboy boot when they came in but the short ones? Jail time, that's jail time,' she said adding the taller boots she 'loves with her life'.

'Sorry to slander White Fox again but sweat shorts with matching tops sets - they can rarely be pulled off and I think the colours are so junior and I hate it.'

Influencer Em Davies recently shared a photo wearing a frilly satin-like bikini that Zoe did not rate.

'No shade to this beautiful woman because I love Em Davies but these panties bather bottoms - kill them, kill them please,' she said.

Another fashion faux-pas of Zoe is when people who roll there jeans up by the hems.

'This is coming from someone who loves sandals with jeans but if you roll, even just one singular roll, it's a no from me,' she said.

After her comments about white nails caused such a stir, Zoe shared some more manicured styles she both loves and hates.

She said she would 'rather have bitten crusty nails' than white squiggles and did not like styles with a different simple design on each finger.

However Zoe said she 'would die for' neutral nails with a small heart and loved shiny dark green solid colours.

'Take this as bible that not everything on Pinterest looks great on you,' she quipped.