https://i2-prod.mirror.co.uk/incoming/article28739422.ece/ALTERNATES/s615/3_JS273309875.jpg

Rebekah Vardy has broken her silence following the bombshell announcement she has trademarked the now iconic phrase Wagatha Christie.

The  I’m a Celebrity star, 41, has successfully trademarked the phrase after her infamous High Court libel case against Coleen Rooney which played out last year.

She has now taken to social media with her children hours after the surprise move.

Rebekah posted a snap on her Instagram stories of herself and three of her children, with a smiling heart emoji.

The mum shares three children with footballer husband Jamie Vardy – Sofia, who was born in 2014, Finlay, 6, and Olivia, 2.

Rebekah’s oldest child, Megan, is now 17 years old, and has since been adopted by Jamie and she also has Taylor, who was born in 2010.

Rebekah is a step-mum to Ella, 11 – Jamie’s daughter from a previous relationship with Emma Daggett.

Last year, the two WAGs went head to head in the High Court after Rooney accused Vardy’s Instagram account of leaking private stories – which she vehemently denied.

However, the judge later parted with Coleen Rooney and ruled that it was “likely” Rebekah’s former agent “undertook the direct act” of leaking stories to The Sun.

Now, Rebekah has decided to make the most of the phrase after Coleen’s sting operation by applying for the trademark license eight months ago under the company, London Limited Inc Ltd.

Should anybody wish to use the phrase on a commercial basis, Rebekah will need to approve it and can also receive a fee for usage.

In documents obtained by the Mirror, her trademark covers everything from clothing, non-alcoholic beverages, broadcasting, education and beauty.

Speaking to The Sun, a source said: “This trademark is Becky’s two fingers to Coleen and all the misery associated with ‘Wagatha Christie’, Becky is shrewd and knew people would try to cash in on the phrase.”

Last month Rebekah got into another social media spat with a rival Wag, having lashed out at Annie Kilner after her husband – England and Manchester City ace Kyle Walker, 32 – was filmed apparently flashing and kissing another woman in a bar.

During the row, dubbed Wag War Two, Rebekah posted “the gift that keeps on giving” and branded Annie, 30, a “doormat”.