In continuation of their awareness and sensitisation campaign on the cashless policy and the use of the eNaira, officials of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the Bankers’ Committee were at Watt Market, Calabar, a fortnight ago. Addressing traders at the event, the Assistant Director, Payments System Management department at the CBN, Mr. Chika Ugwueze, said the sensitisation exercise was aimed at providing adequate information to traders and members of the public about the cashless policy as an alternative to the use of cash.

Ugwueze advised members of the public, especially business- men and women, to download the eNaira and use it as digital money. He said: “The important message to all Nigerians is that the eNaira is not an alternative to your bank account, but an alternative to cash in your wallet because it offers efficiency in payment and improves security.

“Generally, the eNaira has helped to deepen the payment options in the market. The CBN has developed different plat- forms of using the eNaira. As long as you have a telephone in Nigeria, you can have access to the eNaira.” “There is no deadline for go- ing cashless; we are just pre- senting options that will widen payment platforms and make them available for Nigerians,” Ugwueze added. Also speaking at the event, Assistant Banking Officer, Zenith Bank, Calabar, Mrs. Ebere Bassey, urged the traders to reduce overdependence on cash by embracing electronic means of payment.

Lingering challenges However, even as the CBN and Bankers’ Committee officials were in the Cross River state capital trying to convince traders and other business people to embrace the apex bank’s cash- less policy, a lot of bank customers in some of the country’s major cities were spending hours in banking halls trying to get their financial institutions to resolve complaints about e-payment failures. Although such complaints are no longer as widespread as they were between January and March this year, when the cash scarcity, occasioned by the implementation of the CBN’s naira redesign policy, left many people with no choice but to start using digital channels for receiving and making payments, a development, which led to lenders suffering serious network glitches, they still continue to be the main the reason for the current large crowds in banking halls.

Indeed, last Monday, customers of a Tier 1 lender experienced great difficulties trying to transfer or receive funds as the bank’s network was down for a good part of the day. Interestingly, the challenges that lenders are clearly facing in trying to ensure that their e- payment infrastructure is able to withstand the surge in the value and volume of e-payment transaction since January, do not seem to support the level of investment that the banking industry is officially reported to have sunk into building its e- payment infrastructure to boost the cashless policy.

For instance, at an event organised by the CBN to mark the one year anniversary of the eNaira in October last year, Governor of the apex bank, Godwin Emefiele, stressed that the regulator was committed to making Nigeria 100 per cent cashless, adding that, all the infrastructure that is needed to ensure a smooth working cashless system such as a Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC), on- line banking, Payment Service Banks (PSBs), agent banking and mobile banking, had been deployed. N100bn investment Also, in a press statement it issued in February, the Association of Corporate Affairs Man- agers of Banks (ACAMB) stated: “Nigerian banks have invested an estimated total sum in excess of N100 billion in setting up and maintaining cutting-edge electronic channels over the past few years as part of ongoing commitment to seamless customer experience and real time digital financial transactions.

“From internet banking to mobile apps, Automated Teller Machines (ATMs), Point of Sales (PoS) merchants, mobile wallets, Unstructured Supplementary Service Data (USSD) codes, agents and digital franchises among others; not less than 80 per cent of Nigerians now enjoy one form of digital or cashless transaction or an- other, powered by investments by Nigerian banks.”

The association added: “These commitments by banks have seen Nigeria rising steadily and recognised as having arguably Africa’s most advanced digital financial services industry and one of the world’s top 10 real- time payment markets. It is a national pride and a proof of Nigerian banks’ commitment to customer service that Nigeria is regarded as having Africa’s most digitized banking industry.” Upgrade However, industry sources have told New Telegraph that some banking apps would require an upgrade to withstand the current high level of e-payment traffic that financial institutions are handling. According to one of the sources, “the high level of traffic we are seeing on banking apps, these days, is unprecedented.

However, many bank apps in Nigeria do not have the capacity for the number of transactions we are witnessing at the same time right now. “I believe most, if not all the banks, will need to upgrade their apps’ capacity to be able to handle the kind of traffic that we will surely continue to witness as the number of Nigerians adopting e-payments is increasing by the day.”

Furthermore, the source said the country’s banking system is still largely dependent on antiquated technology, adding that a lot of banks need to fully embrace digital payment solutions coupled with the fact that there is lack of standardisation in the industry as banks and financial institutions use different protocols and technologies, which can lead to compatibility issues and the failure of transactions.

The source also explained that the lack of standardization makes it difficult for merchants to adopt new payment technologies, as they need to ensure com- patibility with the systems used by their customers’ banks.

In a recent chat with journalists, the Group Managing Director of Interswitch, Mr. Mitchell Elegbe, attributed the challenges banks are facing with regard to the frequent network glitches to the exit of skilled and talented IT workers who are leaving for greener pastures outside the country. He said: “Nigerians have the capacity to do well. The challenges we are currently facing in the financial industry is as a result of brain drain the professionals are leaving but we will overcome it.”

Analysts note that with DMBs struggling to deliver seamless e-payment services, many of their customers are embracing digital banks such as Kuda, OPay, PalmPay, Hope PSBank, Eyowo and FairMoney. While this is a positive development as it will boost competition in the sector, there are concerns in some quarters that it could also be an opportunity for cybercriminals to target more victims.

In a chat with New Telegraph, the Head of the IT Department of a Tier 1 bank, who spoke on condition of anonymity, warned that the CBN’s cashless policy drive could be derailed if bank customers who adopt e-payment channels continue to suffer un- pleasant experiences, such as having their money trapped for months in banks as unresolved failed transactions or even losing it to fraudsters operating unlicensed digital banks.

As the bank official put it, “while the cashless policy has laudable objectives, the pressure that banks’ IT systems have come under in recent months as a result of increased e-payment transactions is an indication that the industry still has a lot of work to do to be fully ready for it. “Over 80 per cent of the customers that come to banking halls nowadays are there to complain about a failed trans- action.

Unless, there is an improvement in banks’ e-payment services, we may find many customers preferring cash transactions with all the risks that this entails.” But the banks appear to recognize the need to urgently tackle the problem because while commenting on its FY’22 results, one of the industry’s biggest lenders, Zenith Bank, for instance, disclosed that it is in the process of installing a brand-new IT infrastructure to cope with the surging demand for online banking transactions.

According to the lender, in 2022, it spent N30.9 billion on IT up from N28.7 billion. Conclusion However, as analysts have frequently pointed out, without stable power supply in the country, network glitches would continue to be a challenge for the banking industry for some time to come.