News

Sponsored

Events

The Chiefs Forum: The Next 100 Days

Podcasts

A weekend listen: To work, or not, on the Sabbath

LATEST: The fatal optimism of the ‘90s

Democracy and free markets did not conquer all

What became of sin? Let’s call LGBTQIA+ movement what it is

Democrats, the media and their ‘birthing people’ nonsense

Standing up to schoolyard bullies: Colleges need to pay for censorship, campus violence

Does corporate activism help determine where you spend your money?

It depends on the issue

It depends on the product

View results

Massachusetts Air National Guardsman Jack Teixeira, right, appears in U. S. District Court in Boston, Friday, April 14, 2023. He is accused in the leak of highly classified military documents as prosecutors unsealed charges and revealed how billing records and interviews … more >

Sen. Lindsey Graham on Sunday blasted those who have defended Air National Guardsman Jack Teixeira, who is accused of leaking a trove of classified information about the Pentagon and Russia’s war against Ukraine.

Mr. Graham said comments like those by Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene, Georgia Republican, and Fox News host Tucker Carlson justifying the security breach fail to recognize the severity of the situation.

“There are military members serving today from Georgia and other places who are less safe because of what this airman did,” the South Carolina Republican said on ABC’s “This Week.” “There is no justification for this. And for any member of Congress to suggest it’s OK to leak classified information because you agree with the cause is terrible, irresponsible and puts America in serious danger.”

Ms. Greene tweeted last week that because Mr. Teixeira, 21, “is white, male, christian, and anti-war,” it “makes him an enemy to the Biden regime.”

“Ask yourself who is the real enemy?” she tweeted. “A young low level national guardsmen [sic]? Or the administration that is waging war in Ukraine, a non-Nato nation, against nuclear Russia without war powers?”

Mr. Carlson said Thursday during his show that “telling the truth is the only real sin” and that the media is “celebrating the capture of the kid who told Americans what’s actually happening in Ukraine.”

• Ramsey Touchberry can be reached at rtouchberry@washingtontimes.com.

Copyright © 2023 The Washington Times, LLC.                                                     Click

here for reprint permission.

Click to Read More and View Comments