Editor’s Note: This article is part of a sponsorship collaboration with Silicon Castles. If you’re interested in collaborating with us, get in touch here.

Silicon Castles and its Startup Executive Academy (SEA) will join us at this year’s EU-Startups Summit. The team are excited to discover new European Diamonds – talented startups with unique business ideas, scalable technology and outstanding IP.

The Startup Executive Academy is an international Go-To-Market program designed to equip executives and founders of early-stage technology startups with the necessary tools to succeed in the global market. Participants can expect to accelerate their business growth and success through highly relevant and practical input.

Andreas Spechtler, Founder and CEO of Silicon Castles:“We are very excited to be participating at this prominent event as one of the main sponsors. We are ready to interact with more than 2.000 entrepreneurs, startup enthusiasts and investors from across Europe. We have an exciting agenda planned for this year, including our traditional Masterclass on how to transform ideas into global success, a Panel Discussion on the next generation of sports entertainment as well as a Metaverse & Web3 pitch competition”

The world-class faculty consists of top executives and experts from leading companies such as Intel, Edelman, SONY, Dolby, Electronic Arts, Spencer Stuart, Led by renowned Prof. Baba Shiv from the Stanford Graduate School of Business PWC, PlayStation, McKinsey, LG and Deutsche Telekom.

The Silicon Castles team will host an insightful masterclass at this year’s EU-Startups Summit which will give an exclusive sneak peek into the comprehensive program of the SEA. This year already marks the seventh edition of the academy and, for the first time, it takes place in Kaštela near Split at the beautiful Dalmatian coast, Croatia, and offers an even more compact format.

During the first two days of the in-person program, participants engage in diverse group work and get valuable, highly practical insights from the SEA faculty into the following topics:

* Neuroscience and the Connection to Exemplary Leadership

* Pricing, Sales and insights into how to create a professional Investment Memorandum.

The online part of the SEA23 gives participants the chance to enhance their education even further, delving into topics including Digital Marketing, Deal Closing and IP Generation & Protection.

To get the most out of the online live lectures, participants have access to prepared material, such as videos, presentations with voiceovers, and supplementary readings, in advance.

After successful participation in the SEA23, participants will become part of the SEA Circle, the network of the SEA alumni and faculty.

Members can benefit from the global network of the SEA Circle and regular (online) events, the so-called “SEA Circle Sessions“.

Are you a startup with a unique business idea and great technology?

Catch up with the Silicon Castles and SEA team at their exhibition booth (CB2) at this year’s EU-Startups Summit!

You can also apply now for the SEA23 and benefit from early bird participation.