Netflix is aiming to put a stop to the practice of sharing passwords among users of different households. To this end, the streaming giant has come up with a new ‘paid sharing’ plan that will allow subscribers to add additional plans for those users outside their households. While this plan has already been introduced in some countries like New Zealand, Canada, Spain, and Portugal, the platform has delayed its launch in the US. Read on to know more about this.

ALSO READ: Is footballer Neymar’s girlfriend Bruna Biancardi pregnant with their first child? Find out

The paid-sharing plan was introduced in Canada, Spain, New Zealand, and Portugal in February this year. In addition to the monthly subscription they pay, subscribers will now have to pay an additional amount to share their passwords with people outside their households. For instance, these additional plans cost CAD$ 7.99 in Canada, NZD $7.99 in New Zealand, $5.99 in Spain, and $3.99 in Portugal.

ALSO READ: When will Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania be available for streaming? Find out

Although it is not yet known how much these plans will cost in the USA, The Hollywood Reporter reported that during an earnings call on Tuesday, Netflix co-CEO Greg Peters that the pricing will be higher in more affluent countries. The company said that the launch of these plans was postponed in the US until summer as they want to see how subscribers in the aforementioned four countries are reacting to the plans.

ALSO READ: Hailey Bieber drops new PICS in a white bikini, poses in a black slip dress; Netizens have mixed reactions

People who have been using the streaming service for a long time, and are used to either sharing passwords or watching Netflix outside their house are angered. In January, Peters predicted that they could be a short-term loss in the number of subscribers after the plan was launched. However, in its January earnings letter, the company explained that sharing passwords among users “undermines our long-term ability to invest in and improve Netflix, as well as build our business.” The company believes that the paid-sharing plan is the right approach to increasing their revenue in the long term.

ALSO READ: How did Aaron Carter die? Late singer’s autopsy reveals cause of death