The NHL regular season is in the books, and each team from the record-setting Bruins to the tankathon-winning Ducks has had its highlights and lowlights.

The Athletic has already taken a look at the best surprises and worst disappointments across the league. With the regular season wrapping up, this week we asked our NHL staff for the player who provided the very best on a nightly basis: each team’s 2022-23 MVP.

Troy Terry: Consistently regarded by his coach, Dallas Eakins, as the Ducks’ best player in 2022-23, Terry didn’t score nearly as many goals as last season — he dropped from 37 to 23 — but managed to improve his overall game in a terrible year for his team. He succeeded despite his expected shot percentage regression by having posting career-high 38 assists and drawing 32 penalties for the second straight year, which put him among the top 15 players in that category. While his expected-goals-for percentage dropped, it was still the best among Anaheim regulars, and he brought his goals against per 60 minutes down from 3.31 to 3.13. Honorable mention goes to Cam Fowler, who had a career-high 48 points while carrying a woeful defense corps. — Eric Stephens

"Truthfully, all I want is to get back to being a high-level team every year. And I want to do it here in Anaheim."

Now a two-time All-Star, Troy Terry isn't scoring as often but he's still leading the #NHLDucks.https://t.co/ezjz6KQuKA

Clayton Keller: Keller had the finest season of his NHL career, and by scoring his 86th point in the team’s finale Thursday, he tied Keith Tkachuk (1996-97) for the most points in a single season by a player in a Coyotes uniform. Arizona was unexpectedly competitive on a lot of nights this season, in no small part because Keller was so dynamic offensively. The 24-year-old set career highs in both goals (37) and assists (49). — Eric Duhatschek

David Pastrnak: Pastrnak had competition in Linus Ullmark and Hampus Lindholm, but reaching the 60-goal threshold puts him among the NHL’s elite. He changes the game because he can score in so many ways. Not only that, but his presence on the No. 2 line allowed the Bruins to spread out their scoring. — Fluto Shinzawa

David Pastrnak scores 60 goals. Studying an artist's process, from his one-timer to his rush to his step-and-shoot. https://t.co/KPWEoPMXYd

Rasmus Dahlin: Tage Thompson was electric this season, scoring 47 goals and adding 47 assists for a 94-point season through Thursday. But Dahlin felt like the most important player on the team. He was often tasked with carrying an inexperienced defensive core and had 73 points in 77 games. He played through multiple injuries and logged 25:47 of ice time per game, third most in the NHL. He played in all situations and was the team’s biggest difference-maker. — Matthew Fairburn

“All I can do is do my best and compete and that’s what I did today. I really wanted to win this game. I think that’s the simple answer.”

Rasmus Dahlin was dominant against the Hurricanes. And because of that, the Sabres are still alive. @TheAthletic  https://t.co/lKJZ0TNPVQ

Tyler Toffoli: Toffoli was the brightest spot in an otherwise lost season for the Flames. As their top-line right winger, he reached career highs in goals (34) and points (73). He had 22 points in his final 23 games of the season as the Flames chased a playoff spot. While his efforts didn’t result in a postseason berth, Toffoli can at least look back on his production with some measure of pride. — Julian McKenzie

The Flames' season has been underwhelming but Tyler Toffoli is having a career year offensively.

"I came into this season wanting to prove something."@jkamckenzie on Toffoli's big game coming at a critical time.https://t.co/EU13MOdPQZ

Sebastian Aho: After leading the Hurricanes in points in each of the past five seasons, Aho surrendered the team’s scoring title to Martin Necas this year. But make no mistake: This is still No. 20’s team. Aho had his fourth 30-goal season, finishing with 36 despite missing seven games to injury, and he remains Carolina’s all-situations workhorse. He will need to elevate his game in the postseason, but he was again the Hurricanes’ most important player in 2022-23. — Cory Lavalette

So @TheAthletic charged each writer with breaking down a time they were wrong about something.

Mine is a doozy: When I thought Sebastian Aho was “a reach.”https://t.co/Y6YV4KwM4q

Seth Jones: It’s slim pickings in Chicago, where many of the better players — Patrick Kane, Max Domi and Jake McCabe among them — were moved at the deadline. But Jones, the Blackhawks’ lone All-Star, was a steady presence on the blue line, looking the part of a No. 1 defenseman. On a poor defensive team, he managed a respectable 47.13 percent expected-goals share (even though the Blackhawks were outscored 74-50 at five-on-five when he was on the ice). His 12 goals were his most in six years, and he averaged 24:27 of ice time — that’s 4.5 more minutes per game than anyone else on the team. Jones likely will step into an even larger role next season as the most obvious heir apparent to Jonathan Toews’ captaincy. — Mark Lazerus and Scott Powers

Nathan MacKinnon: This is a close race between MacKinnon and Mikko Rantanen. MacKinnon has been Colorado’s best forward when he’s been on the ice (107 points in 69 games through Thursday), but Rantanen kept the team afloat when MacKinnon was hurt in December. In 80 games heading into Friday’s finale, the Finn had 102 points, 54 of which were goals. But I’ll give MacKinnon the slight edge. He’s been on a torrid pace since the All-Star break and is a huge reason the Avalanche ascended so quickly in the standings. — Peter Baugh

The #Avs likely won’t have any award winners this year, but plenty could finish in the top-five for certain trophies.

Examining those candidates, and a look at some impressive Nathan MacKinnon numbers ⬇️https://t.co/906hLzehwm

Johnny Gaudreau: Gaudreau hasn’t come close to matching the 115-point season he had in his final year with Calgary, but the Blue Jackets don’t have close to the supporting cast, either. Still, Gaudreau has flirted with a point-a-game production, and his 53 assists and 72 points, through Thursday, both led the club. This part is hard to measure: Gaudreau hasn’t shown an ounce of regret in signing with the Blue Jackets, even though they’ve been at or near the bottom of the standings all season, and he’s started to take the young players on the roster — notably rookie Kent Johnson — under his wing. — Aaron Portzline

Jake Oettinger: It’s hard to pick one player for the Stars because there are a few great candidates. Miro Heiskanen is the best player on the team, and Jason Robertson would be a Hart candidate in a non-McDavid world. But Oettinger has shouldered a heavy workload at the most important position this season while playing at an elite level. The word that gets used by coaches and players most when describing him this season is “backbone.” That’s enough reason to give him the nod. — Saad Yousuf

With Jake Oettinger in net, Stars always have a chance https://t.co/g7VmzVTPKr

Dylan Larkin: This goes to Larkin for the same reason it has for the past five years. He is the Red Wings’ engine. He’s their leading scorer, finishing the season with a career-best 79 points. And in 2022-23, he even added significant penalty-killing duties. Detroit counts on Larkin for just about everything, which made it all the more important to get him signed long-term last month. Now, the Red Wings need to get to work to better surround him so they don’t waste any more of his prime. — Max Bultman

Connor McDavid: Were you expecting someone else? McDavid’s output — 64 goals, 89 assists and 153 points — looks like something out of the 1980s. He led the league in each of those categories, the first time anyone has done that since Wayne Gretzky in 1986-87. McDavid earned his first Rocket Richard Trophy to go along with his fifth Art Ross. Another Hart and Ted Lindsay are coming, too. The only thing missing is a Stanley Cup. — Daniel Nugent-Bowmam

Connor McDavid became the fourth active player to reach the 60-goal threshold with an overtime winner on Wednesday.

“He has an unbelievable desire to add layers to his game."@DNBsports on the milestone achievement:https://t.co/xxYoVJ8h9M

Matthew Tkachuk: With all due respect to backup goalie Alex Lyon, who put up a .946 save percentage in April and was in net for four crucial wins that ultimately put the Panthers in the playoffs, this answer is a no-brainer. In plenty of seasons, Tkachuk would be the Hart front-runner. He led the Panthers in scoring by 31 points (108), finished sixth in points both overall and at five-on-five, and he trailed only Connor McDavid in average Game Score. He might be the most complete winger in the game. — Sean Gentille

Anze Kopitar: Truth be told, Pheonix Copley was a strong candidate here. We’re talking about a 31-year-old who spent virtually all of the past three years in the AHL coming up to post a 24-6-3 record and save a season that could have gone off the rails early due to poor goaltending. But the 35-year-old Kopitar continues to be a force. He had his best season since he was a Hart Trophy finalist in 2017-18 and remains one of the game’s great two-way centers in leading the Kings back to the playoffs. — Eric Stephens

Ranking and analyzing the NHL’s best and worst first lines this season:https://t.co/PP4lCfPAKJ

Kirill Kaprizov: Before Kaprizov was injured on March 8 in Winnipeg, he was carrying the team for large stretches. He had scored 21.8 percent of their 179 goals and was fifth in the NHL in power-play points and sixth in goals. Basically, he was the only forward scoring for a goal-starved team. Because of the missed time, he didn’t have a shot at repeating his 108-point season from a year ago, but he did return in time to become the first Wild player to record consecutive and multiple 40-goal seasons. — Michael Russo

Kirill Kaprizov, Mats Zuccarello and how ‘the best bromance in hockey’ has transformed the #mnwild

“I think we’re more brothers than mentor-protege.” – Mats Zuccarello

Nick Suzuki: In the interests of advancing modern medicine, Suzuki’s body should be open to study. He played all 82 games as his teammates dropped like flies around him, and though there were some dips in play, all things considered, Suzuki was a consistent presence — the lone glimmer of star power on a team of misfits. In his final game, with the possibility of taking over the team lead in scoring, Suzuki found himself on a three-on-one break against the Bruins. With him were Rem Pitlick and Joel Teasdale. The Canadiens turned the puck over. Suzuki’s season in a nutshell, right there. Through it all, Suzuki never complained. He just came to work. — Arpon Basu

Basu and Godin Canadiens notebook is out! On the two sides of Nick Suzuki’s heater, the Sean Farrell signing and its potential roster consequences, Jordan Harris on growing the game and the coach’s thoughts on Mike Hoffman: https://t.co/8kuMF6bVWw

Juuse Saros: It’s not close for Predators MVP, and Saros should be a Vezina finalist for the second straight year, as well. Heading into Friday’s season finale, Saros is fourth among the NHL leaders in save percentage (.919), is tops in saves (1,928) and tops in MoneyPuck’s goals saved above expected (a whopping 46.7), the highest number since the site began tracking the stat in the 2008-09 season. He has been remarkable, dragging a disappointing team, which turned into a young and injury-plagued team, to within a few points of a playoff spot. — Joe Rexrode

Juuse, we hardly know ye. An attempt to change that in a conversation with the Preds goalie who is more than just a puck-stopping fiend. https://t.co/8ScG7G9Ntk

Jack Hughes: Hughes is an easy answer. The center continued his progress to a superstar level — from someone who started to have good results below the surface, then had the points to match and now has added shooting to his toolbox to match his elite playmaking. The sneaky pick behind him is Nico Hischier, but it’s not particularly close as Hughes has ascended to the next level, both by the eye test and in the underlying numbers. — Shayna Goldman

Ilya Sorokin: Considering they barely got into the playoffs, it’s fair to say the Islanders would not have been anywhere close it not for the play of their elite goaltender. Not only was Sorokin consistently strong from Day 1, but he excelled down the stretch, as the Islanders leaned on him to start 13 of their final 14 games. Sorokin won’t with the Hart Trophy, of course, but it wouldn’t be surprising if he ends up getting some fourth- or fifth-place votes. — Kevin Kurz

Earning a playoff spot is about how a team handles the ups and downs of the seven-month regular season.

So, how did the Islanders do it?@KKurzNHL details the seven main reasons:https://t.co/7nyvlEQleq

Mika Zibanejad: Zibanejad recorded his first career 90-point season and did so while doing all the other important stuff he does: leading Rangers forwards in ice time, taking the most faceoffs, leading the team in goals and power-play goals, etc. In the first year of an eight-year deal worth $8.5 million annually, Zibanejad has moved from under-the-radar No. 1 center to one of the elite centers in the NHL. — Arthur Staple

Does Mika Zibanejad deserve Hart Trophy votes? The stats say yes

Brady Tkachuk: This was a legitimate three-horse race between Tkachuk, Tim Stützle and Claude Giroux. But the captain has been the heartbeat of this team on so many nights this season, dragging the Senators into battle. And when the season was at a very precarious point in early December, he delivered arguably his best game in a Senators jersey at Madison Square Garden, not only dropping the gloves for a spirited fight with Jacob Trouba but also scoring the game-tying goal in the final minute of regulation and then following it up with the game-winner in overtime. He’s set a career high in goals and points and continues to unlock new offensive elements to his game. — Ian Mendes

Carter Hart: It was a tough choice between Hart and Travis Konecny. Do you go with the team’s only true offensive catalyst or the player who consistently kept it in games despite lacking much in the way of tangible offense? Konecny’s 22 missed games give Hart a slight edge, though, especially accounting for the importance of the goaltending position. Hart’s .907 save percentage might not look impressive at first glance, but it was deflated by the quality of defense in front of him. Per Evolving-Hockey’s Goals Saved Above Expectation metric, Hart stopped 12.93 shots more than a league-average netminder, and he did so in front of a team that floundered most of the season. Particularly in October and November, Hart was the only thing keeping the Flyers respectable, and he avoided the late-season dip that torpedoed his 2021-22 numbers. Hart was the Flyers’ most consistent player in 2022-23, and for that reason, he gets the honors. — Charlie O’Connor

After 22-year old Carter Hart outdueled Carey Price in the 2020 playoffs, it seemed he had arrived as one the NHL's best goalies.

Two straight down years put a halt to that talk.

Now he's back, carrying PHI on a nightly basis. What changed? My feature:https://t.co/39Kq4ZfoL4

Jason Zucker: It would be easy — and fair — to say Sidney Crosby or Evgeni Malkin deserved to be MVP. They were far and away the best players. But Zucker, finally healthy, was the engine of these Penguins. When they needed a spark, which was often, he provided it. He was a noticeable presence on the ice and in the room, and he showed his value regularly by playing straight-ahead, unapologetically edgy hockey. — Rob Rossi

On the Ron Hextall era and his imminent dismissal, Jason Zucker’s desire to return to Pittsburgh and so much more: https://t.co/E3qZ4mD4tX

Erik Karlsson: If the Sharks end up with a top-four pick in the 2023 NHL Draft, there’s a perverse case for their goaltenders as co-“MVPs,” but obviously the real answer is Karlsson. He became the first defenseman to score 100 points in three decades. He might become the first player to win the Norris Trophy for a team near the bottom of the standings. He wasn’t just the engine of the Sharks’ offense — on some nights he was the gasoline, the tires and the steering wheel, too. — Corey Masisak

Revisiting 10 bold preseason predictions about the Sharks … which is also another way to frame how remarkable this season from Erik Karlsson has been. https://t.co/cE3CUJQv2u

Vince Dunn: There hasn’t really been one player making the Kraken so special this year. That’s been the key to their success — depth at both ends of the ice. There is one player who really stands out for his pivotal role, though, and that’s Dunn. There have been high hopes for the defender for some time, and this year he really elevated his game to top-pair caliber. He broke out as one of the best five-on-five defenders in the league. — Shayna Goldman

It's a tight Norris Trophy race this year, with contenders shining for different reasons.

Who should be leading the way? It depends how you define the award. https://t.co/wpRCwBIaTf pic.twitter.com/rwJdjFivOq

Jordan Binnington: Team MVPs don’t normally carry an .894 save percentage, and many of you will debate my choice of Binnington because of that stat. Or because you’re tired of his antics, which I get. All that’s fair. But for my dollar, in what was an absolutely disastrous season, Binnington gave the Blues a chance to win almost every night and tried to jumpstart the team on multiple occasions. Pavel Buchnevich would be a solid choice, too, but injuries limited him to 63 games. — Jeremy Rutherford

Brayden Point: This could be a few guys. Andrei Vasilevskiy had the toughest workload of his career and crushed it. Mikhail Sergachev turned into a No. 1 caliber defenseman. Nikita Kucherov is an offensive force. But in the end, MVP goes to Point, who scored 50 goals for the first time and is Lightning’s No. 1 center and Mr. Clutch. “He’s been the straw that’s stirred the drink for this team pretty much all year,” coach Jon Cooper said. — Joe Smith

The night Brayden Point’s junior teammates put 15-year old on their shoulders was one of many signs. On making of #tblightning superstar. “It’s not that Brayden wanted to prove people wrong,” his father says. “I just think he likes to prove himself right” https://t.co/tiCdhyZ8oh pic.twitter.com/Y243txENnO

Mitch Marner: It may not have been Marner’s best season (even if he will end up with a career-high 99 points), but he’s been supremely consistent and reliable on both sides of the puck. The effort is always the same with Marner, and he does it in all situations for the Leafs, including huge minutes on the penalty kill. Marner has been their most reliable offensive performer, putting up at least a point in over 80 percent of his games. He also belongs in the non-Patrice Bergeron Selke Trophy conversation. In a season that’s seen Auston Matthews play through injury, and William Nylander and John Tavares each struggle down the stretch, Marner has been the one constant at the top end of the roster. — Jonas Siegel

Elias Pettersson: Pettersson became the first Canuck since Daniel Sedin in 2010-11 to cross 100 points in a season. He’s driven the bus for the team in all situations while continuing to play an effective all-around game — Harman Dayal

"He looks like Pavel Datsyuk": NHL's top Swedish stars break down and share stories of what makes Elias Pettersson so special:https://t.co/KZtb1QB6VJ

Alex Pietrangelo: The Golden Knights finished atop the Western Conference despite losing Mark Stone for nearly half the season and Shea Theodore for nearly a third of it. They did it on the shoulders of their strong blue line, led by Pietrangelo. He was a workhorse, constantly playing heavy minutes while facing the toughest matchups every night. He also tied a career high with 54 points and set a new career high with 174 blocks. — Jesse Granger

Alex Ovechkin: No need to overcomplicate this: Ovechkin, for the 18th year in a row, was the Capitals’ MVP. Despite missing nine games and playing hurt in many others, the longtime captain led the team in goals (42), points (75), points per game (1.03) and, among forwards, was tops in average ice time (20:22) and second in hits (168). At 37, his skills have eroded some and all the hard miles he’s logged seem to be catching up to him, but his importance has not diminished. Not sure about that? Consider this stat: The Caps are 1-11 in their past 12 games without him. — Tarik El-Bashir

Connor Hellebuyck: Josh Morrissey’s Norris Trophy campaign will probably fall just short, but it’s the only Jets performance capable of casting even a little bit of doubt on Hellebuyck’s status as the team’s clear-cut MVP. Hellebuyck is among league leaders in starts (first), wins (tied for third), save percentage (fifth) and goals saved above expected (fourth, by Evolving-Hockey and MoneyPuck alike.) His short dip from extraordinary to average coincided with Winnipeg’s worst stretch of the season, but his full body of work made him Winnipeg’s best player and a Vezina Trophy candidate. — Murat Ates

Connor Hellebuyck is emotionally intelligent, he's well spoken, and he's passionate about mental health — as clearly evidenced by the children's book he co-authored.

He went deep in this Q and A, and I really hope you'll read it:https://t.co/aM48QOhMgZ