Make any dish go from zero to 100 with a pinch of oregano. Oregano has been an irreplaceable herb for many kitchens worldwide. Belonging to the mint family, the compact-growing Mediterranean herb distinguishes itself with its spicy, pungent taste. It is available in many varieties, and each type imparts unique characteristics to food and your backyard.

The sun-loving, perennial herbs can thrive in containers and on the ground. Growing fresh oregano at home also provides bursting flavors that are more potent than the dry herb in your pantry. If you are unsure about the best variety to grow, learn the many types of oregano you can incorporate into your garden.

Common oregano hails from the Mediterranean region. It is an aggressively spreading herb with runners and little flavor in the leaves. The leaves are light green and about an inch long. The perennial herb produces showy, tiny purple blooms on erect spikes that appear about four weeks after planting seedlings and look very appealing in your garden.

The slightly woody shrub can reach anywhere from 8 to 30 inches in height and is hardy to zones 4 through 9. However, you can easily grow them indoors in cooler climates. Place your oregano in well-draining soil and a sunny location with partial shade to protect the leaves from scorching.

Green oregano is a staple in many Mediterranean dishes and a popular variety used for cooking. With Greek Oregano, you can enjoy the classic pungent oregano flavor, with a sharper taste than common oregano due to the high level of phenolic acid. It is a must in most herb gardens.

Moreover, the plant does not spread as aggressively as the common oregano. It has light green, fuzzy, oval leaves with pointed tips and wavy edges. It produces white flowers that invite pollinators like bees. Greek oregano is hardy to zones 5 through 11 and can flourish under the full sun in arid locations.

Golden oregano is an evergreen perennial herb that grows annually in cooler climates. The plant has fragrant leaves and showy flowers in purple, pink, and white colors, which appear between late summer and early fall. The herb buds are also edible, while the blooms attract beneficial pollinators like bees and butterflies.

The oregano plant is a hardy addition to your garden with fragrant, yellow-green, hairy leaves measuring about ½ to ¾ inches and an average height ranging from 2 to 12 inches. It is hardy to zones 5 through 10 and is best suited for planting outdoors. However, if outdoor planting isn’t an option, you can always grow them in 3-gallon containers with drainage holes.

Italian oregano is a hybrid of oregano and marjoram (a tender sweet-tasting herb similar to oregano but grown as annuals). The combination of Greek oregano’s sharp flavor and the mild taste of sweet marjoram creates the delectable Italian oregano, perfect for adding flair to any dish.

The herb has light green, round leaves, and pinkish-purple or off-white blooms mounted on spikes that appear in late summer. It can grow to 3 feet in height and spread about 2 feet wide. The plant can survive in hardy zones 5 through 10

Distinctive in fragrance and flavor, Syrian oregano is a perennial herb of richly aromatic foliage and an essential component of Middle Eastern cooking. Its spicy flavors mimic the qualities of oregano, thyme, and marjoram. It is also the primary ingredient in Zaatar, an iconic spice blend known throughout the Middle Eastern region.

It usually grows about 2 ½ feet tall in an upright mound, with fuzzy, square stems and oval, grey-green leaves about an inch long. The tiny, pale pink or white flowers appear in clusters of spikes in mid through July and August. However, the blooms are not very showy.

Once established, the herb is hardy to zones 8 through 10 and tolerant to drought, heat, and poor soil.

Hopflower is a primarily ornamental oregano variety. It produces lavender bracts resembling hop flowers. The plant’s growth is vigorously trailing, making it an attractive addition to your landscape. You can drape the trails over stones or low walls to display the striking blooms throughout the summer and fall. The blooms turn brown and dry come fall, adding another layer of visual interest.

The perennial herb is small, reaching about 10 to 14 inches tall and 16 to 24 inches wide. It can grow in clay, loamy, and sandy soils and prefer a sunny location with partial shade, surviving outdoors in zones 4 through 8. While the herb is inedible, it will be a highlighting feature of your garden.

Oregano is more than just a spice – it’s an adventure for the senses. Depending on your style of cooking and taste preference, you can opt for the mildly flavored common oregano or the more robust Greek variety.

On the other hand, you could go for the aromatics of the golden herb or the visuals of the intriguing hopflower. With so many options, you will surely find the perfect oregano type to add to your garden!

Did you know there were so many types of oregano? Which one did you find most interesting? Share below in the comments!