James and Ola Jordan's Instagram feeds are full of impressive dance videos after the stars lost weight and launched their Dance Shred plan, and on Monday, the pair delighted fans with a brand-new clip.

The Strictly Come Dancing stars performed a routine on TikTok, which they reshared on Instagram and it received over 15,000 likes.

They captioned the fun video: "Such a lovely day and we couldn't help ourselves and do an old school Jive for you. The OG’s  #couplegoals #dance #danceshred #mumanddad."

Ola wore a taupe coloured long sleeved bodysuit with stone coloured cargo tracksuit bottoms, while James was head-to-toe in camel, wearing a matching tracksuit.

The couple moved in time, kicking their legs and shaking their hips to the Footloose soundtrack.

Their daughter Ella makes a cameo appearance, scooting past on a pink scooter twice during the routine, and fans loved it. "Love how Ella casually cycles past" and "Love how Ella just carries on taking no notice" followers added.

Behind Ola and James, their new garden could be admired, the first look at their new outdoor space since moving home. There is a patio area as well as a large patch of grass. The perimeter is lined with a uniform wooden fence and the property appears to not be overlooked at all – just trees and blue skies in sight!

The couple loved their former four-storey megamansion but they parted ways with it for two reasons, the cost and for their daughter Ella.

"With everything that’s going on in the world at the moment, our old house was too expensive to run. A swimming pool costs a lot of money to heat," revealed James in a previous interview.

WOW: James Jordan shows wife Ola in a 'tiny little number' following incredible body transformation

"It is what it is. We've done it for her. Yeah, we’ve moved out of an amazing home, but it didn't suit us with Ella and we feel we can hopefully give her a better life somewhere else."

Want to keep up to date with the latest stories?Sign up to our HELLO! Newsletters today.