Sure, Benedict Cumberbatch is an incredible actor who feels like he’s been doing this line of work for more than a century already. However, he’s a normal man of 46 years and not some immortal. However, in a new series, “How to Stop Time,” he’ll play a man who has lived for more than 500 years.

READ MORE: ‘Eric’: Benedict Cumberbatch To Star In New Netflix Series About A Puppeteer Searching For His Son

According to Variety, Studiocanal is developing a new series titled “How to Stop Time,” which will star none other than Benedict Cumberbatch. The series, based on the Matt Haig novel of the same name, tells the story of a history teacher with the unique illness of anageria, which means he ages at an incredibly slow rate. Even though he appears to be a man in his 40s, he’s actually someone from the 1500s. The teacher has teamed up with others like himself to form a shadowy elite group. But things get crazy when he falls in love with a normal woman, something he has vowed not to do.

“Losing his loved ones, his existence is in many senses one of perpetual loss. So you can imagine Benedict being absolutely perfect for the role,” Studiocanal CEO Anna Marsh said. “There are many themes that hit home.”

READ MORE: ‘Book Of Clarence’: Benedict Cumberbatch, David Oyelowo, James McAvoy, Alfre Woodard & More Join Jeymes Samuel’s Biblical Story

“In his inimitable style, Matt once again explores what it is to be human and what it is to live a life – a very long one in this case – with pathos, insight, humor, drama and inspiration,” added Cumberbatch.

Joining Cumberbatch in the development of the series are writer D. C. Moore, who will adapt the book for the series, as well as director Tomas Alfredson, the filmmaker behind “Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy,” who will helm the series.

“How to Stop Time” is the first major series work for Cumberbatch since his “Patrick Melrose” limited series, which debuted in 2018. Since then, he’s shown up in series such as “Good Omens” and “What If?” The latter of which saw Cumberbatch voice Doctor Strange, the role that many folks probably know him best for.

It’s unclear when we might see “How to Stop Time” debut, but filming is expected to begin in 2024.