A WOMAN is working to inspire her followers to be confident in their bodies, especially at the gym, regardless of shape or size.

The TikToker is a regular gym-goer but explained how she still feels uncomfortable exercising in certain situations.

Lucy James-Reeves (@lucy_xfit) is part of the "self love club" and posts videos empowering women to be more confident.

On her Instagram, she states that she "Inspires girls to be confident in their bodies and to be strong every day."

In one of her TikTok videos Lucy explained that while other girls train in sports bras, she has never felt comfortable doing so.

The text in the video read: "POV: You spent years thinking you couldn't train in just a sports bra because you didn't see anyone online that looked like you."

For the first time, Lucy wore high-waisted gym leggings paired with a light blue sports bra to do her workout.

She filmed herself doing hip-thrusts and when she finished her reps she turned to the side to lean on the bench which showed off her small rolls.

Lucy added: "Now if we're talking bodies - you've got the perfect one."

In the caption, she explained: "Spent way too long wishing I was that girl, the idea of training without a top on made me so nervous.

"Now I’ve done it I know there was nothing to worry about "

Followers responded calling her inspirational and thanking her for helping them accept their own body shape.

One agreed with Lucy saying: "Once you start working out in a sports bra, you can't go back.

"Did it my entire pregnancy and you best believe my post partum body doing the same."

Another wrote: "This actually made me feel so good about myself because everyone at my gym has no excess body fat even though I don't have much. It's nice to see."

One thanked the TikToker saying: "I HAVE THE SAME BODY!! Thank you for your page and confidence."

In another video, Lucy helped women who want to start running to get the confidence to go.

She said: "To all my girlies who wanna start running but don't feel like they're good enough to start.

"My biggest tip is to just go. Leave the house for 10 minutes, run. Start slow and add minutes each week.

"You don't have to be perfect to start."