THREE-QUARTERS of patients in some parts of England are unable to see their preferred GP, Labour warned over the weekend, as it pledged to end the “postcode lottery” for appointments.

The level of face-to-face appointments is down to just 50 per cent in some areas, according to the party’s analysis of NHS England and Office for National Statistics data published on Saturday.

Ahead of the local elections on May 4, Labour guaranteed that patients who want them will get in-person check-ups and promised to bring back the family doctor, pointing to an NHS review which found the popular move would help earlier detection of serious illness.

The party also reiterated a pledge to double the number of doctors trained each year from 7,500 to 15,000, but it once again failed to make any commitments on pay, despite intermittent strikes by junior doctors across the country.

Shadow health secretary Wes Streeting said: “It’s much better for patients to see the GP who knows their medical history, face to face if they wish.

“But patients are finding it impossible to get an appointment at all, let alone with the doctor they want, in the manner they choose.

“It’s no surprise given the Conservatives have cut 2,000 GPs since 2015. Labour will train 15,000 doctors a year, paid for by abolishing the non-dom tax status, so patients are seen on time again.

“We will bring back the family doctor and give patients choice over their care.”

In all, 72 per cent of appointments across England were face to face in February, compared with 85 per cent in the same month in 2020 just before the first Covid-19 lockdown, according to the research.

The longest waits for a GP appointment were in Chesterfield, where 11 per cent of patients faced a delay of more than four weeks, almost 10 times as many as in Coventry.

Nearly four in 10 said they were only offered a telephone consultation when they wanted an in-person appointment.

Tory Party chairman Greg Hands claimed the plans are unfunded and said his party, which consistently defends non-dom tax status and other measures which disproportionately benefit the rich, has “already delivered over 38,000 more doctors to the NHS.”