Assistant Solicitor General Angelita V. Miranda yesterday lauded Justice Secretary Jesus Crispin Remulla for signing Department Circular 20, dated 31 March, that institutionalizes the policy on “pro-active involvement of prosecutors in case build-up.”

Citing the clamor of the National Task Force to End Local Communist Armed Conflict for prosecutors to help gather evidence, Miranda said this was exactly the vision that will result in many convictions as the quantum of proof in criminal cases is proof beyond a reasonable doubt.

“We have been clamoring for prosecutors to help in the gathering of evidence because, in the United States, it’s the process that you go hand in hand with the law enforcers and the private complainant to build up a case,” Miranda said in Daily Tribune’s Straight Talk digital program.

Requiring prosecutors to coordinate and cooperate with law enforcement agencies from the inception of filing heinous crimes cases departs from their traditional role of simply receiving documents, she said.

She said that in the past, there were prosecutors who leaned on communists while others received threats that affected the outcome of investigations.

DoJ Circular 20 “will require assisting prosecutors to assess the evidence gathered by law enforcement agencies, assist private complainants, and help investigate heinous crimes to increase the conviction rate by ensuring that cases will pass the crucible of trial and result in a conviction by proof beyond reasonable doubt.”

With the new circular, Miranda believes that all prosecutors will follow suit.

“The DoJ circular makes it almost certain that the person you filed a case against will be convicted even though they are not really weak in terms of their defense,” Miranda said.

Meanwhile, Miranda said the government was still disputing the points raised by International Criminal Court Prosecutor Karim Khan this month in pushing to continue with its probe into alleged crimes against humanity under the Duterte administration’s war on drugs.

Miranda explained that the ICC’s latest decision prompted President Ferdinand Marcos Jr. to assert the country’s sovereignty and judicial system.

To recall, Marcos said last March that he would cut off all contact with the ICC after it rejected an appeal  to stop investigating the war on illegal drugs under former president Rodrigo Duterte.

The Office of the Solicitor General submitted a petition on 11 April in response to the ICC’s decision, citing five matters it wanted to address, which Prosecutor Karim Khan raised to dismiss the government’s appeal to overturn an earlier ICC decision to resume the controversial probe.

“The Philippine government has identified five discreet issues which would warrant a reply as they either concern new issues which could not have been reasonably anticipated by the Philippine government and/or require a limited reply which is necessary for the adjudication of the appeal,” the OSG stated in its five-page petition.

When asked about public opinion, Miranda acknowledged that some sectors believe the request should not have been made as it could compromise the country’s sovereignty.

She, however, emphasized that the country adheres to international law standards and that the ICC proceedings do not necessarily mean surrendering sovereignty or subjugation.

Miranda clarified that filing the pleadings before the ICC was a way of showing respect to international law standards and that it does not necessarily mean surrendering the country’s sovereignty.

“We are doing this because we adhere to international law standards,” Miranda said. “But it does not necessarily mean that we are surrendering our sovereignty and that we are, I mean, the ICC would subjugate us in that manner now.”

When asked about engagement with the ICC prosecutors, Miranda clarified that it has only been on the level of pleadings and opposing each other’s arguments. There has been no transfer of information or face-to-face engagement.

The OSG, she said, will continue to present its arguments before the court.

“Once a pleading is filed, and you want to say something, you can comment, you can oppose, and that’s it,” she said.

Read more Daily Tribune stories at: https://tribune.net.ph/