Two assailants burst into a hotel room and restrain its inhabitant, a well-known writer who has been accused of sexual assault. Soon they are live-streaming his “trial”: online voters will decide whether he lives or dies. It’s a terrifying extreme of cancel culture, and an outlandish but potent premise for a dystopian play. Alas, Robert Boulton’s muddled, overwritten and oddly boring black comedy is far more deserving of cancellation than any of its targets.

Almost the entire first half, a lengthy set-up featuring a mismatched pair of contract killers (jaded veteran Marcus and studious newcomer Sarah), feels superfluous, and Michael Cottrell’s direction is tortuously slow. There’s an overreliance on the inherent hilarity of assassins either using corporate speak – this is an “emerging industry” – or making small talk. Shame we already have The Dumb Waiter, Pulp Fiction and many, many others.

The second half is more eventful, but horribly confused. It’s impossible to get a handle on the accused man, Tony Leith, a contradictorily labelled “left-leaning, alt-right troll”. He says his book Snowflakes reclaims the term “from fiftysomethings”, yet he sneers about Twitter leading to populism overriding the truth. He’s also generically posh, cheats on his wife (we see lacy knickers from the night before), and, hypocritically, tries the “I’m a husband and father” defence. But he and his supposed victim remain abstract concepts.

Likewise, the parameters of this world are frustratingly vague. Tony is apparently number 262 on this extrajudicial gang’s kill count – all broadcast, with the assassins appearing on camera; Tony recognises Marcus, and both he and Sarah appear in the live-streamed video (projected onto the back wall of the theatre). So, is their work essentially state-endorsed? If so, why is it framed as a guerrilla operation with a shadowy boss?

There is some interesting – if bluntly didactic – discussion of who has a right to judge others, whether we’re accidentally establishing a new power imbalance, and the lack of nuance and objectivity in social justice. But that’s all obliterated by a series of silly twists, which narrows the focus to personal vendettas.

Henry Davis supplies Tony with privileged bluster, but the terror of this life-or-death situation isn’t sustained, while Boulton fatally overcooks the showy part of nasty, swaggering Marcus. Louise Hoare at least gives Sarah some ambiguity, and is unsettling in her fervour as she fan-girls Marcus for his previous jobs: “You tear them apart.”

Perhaps the biggest irony is that what should be a provocative play is too scattered and hazy to cause offence. It aims for Black Mirror, but lands on beige.