Emmerdale spoilers reveal Marshall Hamston faces death next week, after a day of boozing to numb his pain leaves him fighting for his life

Emmerdale airs tragedy next week, as teenager Marshall Hamston is found unconscious after downing booze to numb his secret agony.

The character, who was recently disowned by his father after revealing he was gay, struggles to cope in upcoming scenes - but his actions leave him fighting for his life.

Marshall will seemingly end up choking on vomit, after getting drunk alone in his room. He is currently staying at Laurel Thomas' house, after she discovered he had been attacked by his father.

As he passes out in upcoming scenes, he soon throws up while unconscious and begins to choke leaving him facing death.

He is found in a bad way by Laurel who screams out for help, as her partner Jai Sharma rushes in and calls for an ambulance.

Emmerdale airs tragedy next week, as teenager Marshall Hamston is found unconscious

Laurel finds him covered in his sick and unconscious, and tries her best to wake him up while waiting for emergency help.

Marshall is soon rushed to hospital, but will he be okay?

Laurel tries to get through to Marshall and get him to open up earlier in the week, but is left devastated when she realises how hurt he is.

Instead of speaking out, Marshall hits the booze and tries to numb his feelings resulting in his horror collapse.

Marshall is soon rushed to hospital

Viewers will have to tune in next week to find out if Marshall survives his ordeal, and whether he will get the help he needs.

Elsewhere, he isn't the only teen facing trouble as Cathy Hope also hits the booze before making a drastic decision.

After a possible diagnosis for her recent change in behaviour, including angry outbursts and moments of anxiety and depression, Cathy is still struggling.

Next week she accidentally attacks her dad Bob Hope, and she decides enough is enough.

Late at night, Cathy flees the B&B with a packed bag and heads off into the night - but will she leave for good?

Emmerdale airs weeknights at 7:30pm on ITV1 and ITVX, with an hour-long episode on Thursdays.

You can find this story in  My Bookmarks.

Or by navigating to the user icon in the top right.