NATURAL BRIDGE, Va. (April 15, 2023) – The first Virginia Sprint Series race of the year showed that Joe Leavell had not lost his touch from his winning ways from last year at Natural Bridge Speedway.

The Waynesboro ace wasted no time going to the front in Friday night’s opener for the IMCA RaceSaver series and was on a rail to take the win. Leavell had been a double winner at Natural Bridge last season, getting the second of those victories in the 2022 tour finale.

Daren Bolac and Caleb Harris paced the field to green this time around and Bolac and Harris stayed glued nose to tail until Harris moved to the front, running the higher line.

Leavell went around Bolac and began working on Harris early on. The laps clicked away in the caution-free feature and nobody was going to prevent Leavell from going to the front.

The pack stayed in pursuit and kept him in sight but never made a challenge even in traffic as he cruised under the waving checkered flag.

At the line it was Leavell getting the win ahead of Harris and Bolac.

Next it’s off to Hagerstown Speedway in Maryland in a co-sanctioned event with the Laurel Highlands Sprint Series on Saturday, April 22.

By Jim Haines  SHENANDOAH, Va. (Sept. 25) – Billy Hubbard raced to the front like a cat with its tail on fire, then paced his right rear tire which he had smoking hard to the finish for his third Virginia Sprint Series feature win of the year Saturday at Shenandoah Speedway.  Matt Mullins and Chris Ware were on the front row as the IMCA RaceSaver Sprint Car event went green with Mullins out first and Ware moving to the bottom. Jerald Harris was making a quick trip up high to the front right away and by lap two he was on Mullins and going by for the lead. With Harris out front and looking strong, Mike Leraas made it to second and was chipping away at the lead with Hubbard working through the field to third. As the halfway flags were shown, Leraas shot to the lead with Harris holding off Hubbard.  Hubbard got by Harris and took after Leraas as Harris was having a tire go down causing him to slow.  Hubbard was really [Read More]

By Jim Haines HAGERSTOWN, Md. (April 23, 2022) – After winning his heat race, Ken Duke raced hard all feature taking the lead with four laps to go and going on to the Saturday IMCA RaceSaver Sprint Car feature win at Hagerstown Speedway.  Twenty cars were on hand for the Laurel Highlands Sprint Series and Virginia Sprint Series co-sanctioned event as the red clay oval was perfectly smooth sticky and dust free.  The feature lined up with Scott Lutz and Chris Humblet pacing to green with Lutz out first and Duke in with the rest of the field dicing for a spot. Lutz and Duke stayed on the bottom as 10th starting Jerald Harris found a high line to his liking and was a rocket as he made it to third by lap two. Harris swept into the lead on lap four up high, leaving Lutz and Duke to race for second with John Scarborough closing in. Laps clicked off as the track stayed great and Harris was flying out front by himself with Duke [Read More]

By Jim Haines  NATURAL BRIDGE, Va. (Aug. 7) – Matt Mullins joined the Virginia Sprint Series four years ago after having raced other divisions.  But being from Iowa, he always wanted to race a Sprint Car and Saturday night fulfilled a life-long dream of not just racing Sprinters but winning in one.  Mullins and Chris Ware paced the IMCA RaceSaver field to green with Mullins out first, Ware right behind and Mike Leraas and Daren Bolac racing for third.  Mullins was really rolling out in clean air while Ware tryied to stay in touch. Bolac made it to third with Leraas fourth. Mullins was still out front flying as Bolac and Leraas advanced. Brandon McLain made his way to fourth as Bolac was closing in on Mullins, but laps ran out as the leader flashed under the waving checkered flag for his first feature win.  Next week it’s off to The Greater Cumberland Raceway in Cumberland, Md., with the Laurel Highlands Sprint Series on Saturday night Aug. 14.  Feature results – 1. Matt Mullins; 2. Daren [Read More]