We’ve partnered with the Maguire Law Firm to bring you Carolina Kindness stories each Wednesday.  Share your act of kindness with us:  carolinakindness@wfxb.com.

A 33-year-old Uber driver recently picked up a 71-year-old guy from a dialysis center in Delaware, and ended up giving him a kidney. During a 30 min ride, something happened to where the Uber driver Tim Letts offered his kidney to passenger Bill Sumiel .  It’s a long process to be tested, but true to his word, the Uber driver, who is also an army veteran, went for testing, was a match. and completed the process.  I’s been two years now and is living life normally.  Click here for more on the story.

Two grandmas from Texas just went around the world in 80 days at age 80.  They say they didn’t plan a vacation, they planned an “adventure.”  Sandy Hazelip and Ellie Hamby have been friends for decades, and started traveling together after their husbands passed away. Ellie is a documentary photographer and Sandy is a physician and lecturer.  In less than three months, they hit 18 countries on all seven continents, adventuring from the beaches of Bali to the deserts of Egypt.   They hope their adventure encourages others to “take life by the reins and get out of that easy chair!” To see more of their adventures, click here.

This guy doesn’t sit around. Determination in action is how you might describe this man.  John Jepkema is 91-year-old and just became the oldest person to hike across the Grand Canyon.  He did it with his friends all in their 60s.  They had a crew to follow them so it could be documented for the Guinness World Records folks.  He started at the north rim , went down into the canyon, then hiked back up to finish at the south rim.  Jepkema hiked a total of 24 miles in five days.   To prepare for the big hike, he would walk three  miles to morning coffee with a 30-pound pack then walk back home.  Jepkema said it’s important to note sidewalk miles are not the same as trail miles.  To see more of the Jepkema journey, click here.