Pocket Gems seeks to build the greatest mobile games and most compelling interactive entertainment in the world. That’s the mission our founders began with, in an apartment above a pizza shop back in 2009, and it continues to inspire us today. With $155 million in backing from Sequoia Capital and Tencent, we’re constantly breaking new ground in mobile entertainment. Our products have been downloaded over 500 million times by players around the world and have grossed over $1 billion in revenue. We continue to release brand new content for Episode, a mobile storytelling network and platform, and War Dragons, a visually stunning 3D real-time strategy game. As our community of players continues to grow, we’re committed to building diverse and inclusive environments across our teams, and in our games.

*Please note that this job posting is not for an immediate need, but for an opportunity to submit an application for future consideration.*

Once you submit your application, our recruiter will reach out to you to explore next steps. Since we do not have an available position today, we will provide you with a couple of options (listed below) to be respectful of your time.

You can set up a brief introductory call with our recruiter to discuss more about your background and Engineering at Pocket Gems. You can skip the introductory call until a position becomes available that matches your experience, and be one of the first to get contacted again when that happens.

As we continue to expand our game portfolio with exciting new games and features, we will look to have tenured Staff Software Engineers to help grow our games and teams to success. We’re a very collaborative team, focused on deeply understanding our millions of users in order to consistently surprise and delight them.

What We Are Looking For In Future Engineering Team Members:

* Strong team building and empowering skills; you love building and mentoring scalable and high-performing teams of engineers at all levels

Read more about what we’ve been up to! At Pocket Gems, we're building teams that value originality, inclusivity, and accountability -- and we hope to engage with talent based on these and other core values. We also offer competitive perks, such as flexible vacation, 401k matching, and a generous benefits package, Pocket Gems is an equal opportunity employer. We do not discriminate based on race, color, ethnicity, ancestry, national origin, religion, sex, gender, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran status, genetic information, marital status or any legally protected status. Pursuant to the San Francisco Fair Chance Ordinance, we will consider for employment qualified applicants with arrest and conviction records.