What Is The Size Of The Global Auto Finance Industry?

The Global Auto Finance market is growing at a robust CAGR in 2017-2022 and is expected to be a USD 400 Bn market by 2027. The Global Auto Finance Market is largely driven by increasing investments in autonomous vehicles and growing demand for EVs.

The outbreak of COVID-19 had an adverse impact on the market. The economic uncertainty has forced car buyers to postpone their purchase of a new vehicle. Despite the slowdown in car sales, auto lenders accommodated an upsurge in servicing activity, such as refinancing and extensions. Auto lenders are also adopting digital tools to expedite the service processes, remotely.

Nevertheless, since the latter part of the year, the demand for automobiles has shown a substantial rise, which has supported the automotive finance industry. The COVID-19 epidemic has also accelerated the expansion of online and digital platforms for B2C purchasing. As a result of these changes, manufacturers and industry participants have begun to virtualize their dealerships or agreements and work remotely.

Furthermore, the increasing demand for passenger cars, the acceptance of alternative-fuel vehicles, and the rise of digitalization in the automobile industry are contributing to the market growth on the global level.

To Know More about this report, download a Free Sample Report

The Global Auto Finance market is segmented by Distribution Channel into Banks & Subsidiaries, NBFCs, OEMS, and Captives. The growing importance of captive automotive finance worldwide is creating new opportunities for market growth.

The Global Auto Finance market is segmented by Type of Financing into Passenger Vehicles, Commercial Vehicles. The commercial vehicles segment is anticipated to witness significant growth during the forecast period.

The Global Auto Finance market is segmented by region into North America, Europe, Asia Pacific, Latin America, the Middle East & Africa.

Asia-Pacific is predicted to develop significantly throughout the projection period, owing to an increasing number of favorable government measures in economies such as India, Japan, and China to stimulate automotive sector expansion and retain customer interest.

The Global Auto Finance market is segmented by Type of Financing into Passenger Vehicles, Commercial Vehicles. The commercial vehicles segment is anticipated to witness significant growth during the forecast period.

The Global Auto Finance market is segmented by Vehicles financed into new cars, Used cars, and Motorcycles.

The New Vehicle segment dominated the market as the sales of medium and heavy commercial vehicles increased substantially globally.

Global Auto Finance Market By Tenure Of The Loans

The Global Auto Finance market is segmented by Tenure of the loans into 1 year, 2 years, 3 years, 4 years, 5 years, and above.

For more insights on the market intelligence, refer to the link below:-

Tags: Ally Financial Bank Car Finance Revenue share, Asia Pacific Used Car Finance Sector, Auto Finance Marketing Spend, Bank of America auto finance Market Share, Capital One auto finance Market Share Global, Car Finance Industry Future Plans, Challenges Global Auto Finance Market, Chase Auto Finance Market Share, Competitors in Global Car Finance Market, Daimler Financial Services revenue stream, e-platform players Global Auto Finance Market, Emerging Players in Global Auto Finance Market, Europe Online Auto Finance Market, Ford Motor Credit Company Share, Funds Raised Startups Global Car Loan, Global Auto Finance Lenders, Global Auto Finance Market, Global Auto Finance Ticket Size, Global Auto Loan Consumer Base, Global Auto Loan Growth, Global Auto Loan Revenue Streams, Global Car Finance Industry, Global Car Loan Disbursed, Global Car Loan Outstanding, Global Car Loan Trends, Global Cars Parcs, Global commercial vehicle Loan Market, Global Hire Purchase Loans Market, Global Motorcycle Finance Sector, Global New Car Finance Market rate, Global Online Auto Finance Market, Global passenger vehicle Loan Market, Global Used Car Finance Sector, Global Vehicle Loan Interest Rate, Global Vehicle Loan Sector Outlook, Global Vehicle Refinanced Market, Global Vehicles Finance Future Projections, GM Financial Inc. Auto Loan Revenue share, Hire Purchase Loans Industry Revenue Streams, Hitachi Capital Leasing market share Global Toyota Financial Services Auto Loan Outstanding, Investment Global Auto Finance, JPMorgan Chase & Co. auto finance Market Share Globally, Latin America Vehicle Refinanced Market, Leading Global Auto Loan Service Providers, Leading Players in Global Auto Finance Market, Major players in Global Vehicle Finance Market, Mercedes Benz Mobility Hire Market Share, Middle East & Africa New Car Finance Market rate, North America commercial vehicle Loan Market, Number of Auto Finance companies, Number of Car Loan Disbursed, Number of Car loan Service providers, Number of Hire loan purchases globally, Number of Motor loan service providers, Number of Used Vehicle Financed globally, Number of Vehicles Financed Globally, Opportunities Global Car loan industry, Top 5 Funded FinTech’s Globally, Top Captive players in Global Auto Finance Industry, Vehicle finance Companies in Global, Volkswagen Financial Services Auto Finance Share