Skip to main content

What are you looking for?

Established in 1951, IOM is the leading inter-governmental organization in the field of migration and works closely with governmental, intergovernmental and non-governmental partners. The International Organization for Migration (IOM) is committed to the principle that humane and orderly migration benefits migrants and society. As the leading international organization for migration, IOM acts with its partners in the international community to: assist in meeting the growing operational challenges of migration management; advance understanding of migration issues; encourage social and economic development through migration, and; uphold the human dignity and well-being of migrants.

As part of its support to the Government of Belgium, IOM assists with the establishment and management of accommodation centres for persons seeking international protection in Belgium. This support spans from the establishment of accommodation centres where needed to the day-today operations of the centre.

Under the direct supervision of the Medical Assistant, the nurse will be, inter-alia, responsible for:

Provide general assistance with the daily nursing activities in the centre, such as:

Medical examinations: Checking vital signs, weight, height, visual acuity; and blood, urine or sputum collection as required.

Transport of samples to the laboratory in a proper and safe manner;

Other technical areas as may be required.

Provide support and general information to the migrants and/or asylum seekers in relation to Treatments and referrals;

Support Medical Assistant with proper identification and follow up by:

Keeping a register of applicants who undergo health investigations and testing.

Assist Medical Assistant in medical emergency management as well as with chronic case management and related procedures. Make referrals to specialist consultations and ensure receipt of specialist reports;

Support proper and accurate record keeping of applicants, including uploading medical reports on the required databases;

Support the medical assistant with the coordination for referrals and approvals of medical treatments;

Prepare list of medical drugs and supplies for ordering as requested by the Medical Assistant, assist in inventory taking, confirm and receive ordered drugs and supplies; all in close coordination with the Logistics, Warehouse and CBI Assistant.

Perform other duties as may be assigned.

Bachelor’s degree in nursing from an accredited institution with one year of relevant clinical experience required.

Training or working experience in the areas of Tuberculosis management, mass immunizations, communicable diseases, laboratory testing or public health is an advantage;

Demonstrated ability to draft and prepare clear and concise formal correspondence and project reports.

Demonstrated ability to work well under pressure and keep deadlines.

Fluency in English and French/Dutch is required.

Working knowledge of Farsi, Pashto and/or Arabic is an advantage.

Any offer made to the candidate is subject to funding confirmation.

Appointment will be subject to certification that the candidate is medically fit for appointment and verification of residency, visa and authorizations by the concerned Government, where applicable. As part of the mandatory medical entry on duty clearance, candidates will be requested to provide evidence of vaccination against COVID-19.

This post is subject to local recruitment. Only persons holding a valid residence and work permit for Belgium will be eligible for consideration.

Interested candidates are invited to submit their applications to IOMBrusselsApplications@iom.int by 25 April 2023 23:59 (Brussels time), referring to this advertisement in the subject line (CFCV 2023-21 Nurse ACC) and including the following documents:

In order for an application to be considered valid, IOM only accepts applications duly completed. IOM reserves the right to contact shortlisted candidates only.

New recommendation on hepatitis C virus testing and treatment for people at ongoing risk of infection - Policy Brief