The Hair Care Mistakes That Almost Always Lead To Thinning Hair And Breakage

Beauty mistakes happen all the time — wearing the wrong shade of foundation, getting lipstick on your teeth. But when they happen to your hair, they can sometimes result in more drastic outcomes, like thinning and breakage. Knowing the mistakes to avoid can help you achieve healthier, silkier hair. And it’s not as difficult as you might think: simply by swapping some of your hair habits for others you can be well on your way. According to hair experts, these are the hair care mistakes that almost always lead to thinning hair and breakage.

Walmart Is Here To Help Update Your Home This Spring

We all love the sleek and polished look that heat styling tools provide, but using them too frequently or at high temperatures can cause hair breakage, according to Swarnali Ghosh, an expert in hair health who co-founded Awe. Hair. “The heat weakens the hair's protein structure, leading to hair becoming brittle and prone to breakage,” Ghosh says. More specifically, the hair mistakes that can lead to breakage are overuse of thermal stylers like curling irons, wands and flat irons, notes Christine Howell, Zotos Professional Regional Education Manager. “These tend to be used at high heat settings which can literally melt the hair structure and cause breakage,” Howell says.

To minimize damage, Ghosh advises trying to limit the use of heat styling tools and always using a heat protectant spray. “When you do use them, use the lowest effective heat setting for your hair type,” Ghosh adds.

“Chemical treatments like hair coloring, perming, and relaxing can also damage the hair structure,” Ghosh says. “These processes alter the hair's natural chemical composition, leading to weakened hair strands that are more susceptible to breakage and thinning.”

Examples of chemical treatments that can cause the most damage include bleaching your hair, perms, and chemical straighteners. “Consult with your hairstylist to find gentler alternatives to harsh chemical treatments or extend the time between touch-ups,” Ghosh says.

Constantly wearing tight hairstyles, like ponytails, braids, or buns, puts excessive tension on the hair shaft, Ghosh says. “Over time, this tension can weaken the hair and even damage the hair follicle, leading to hair thinning and breakage. Give your hair a break by wearing looser hairstyles that don't put excessive tension on your hair.”

As important as it is to avoid hair care mistakes, it’s equally beneficial to choose products that add moisture back in so that damaged strands are conditioned and nourished.

“Use hair care products specifically designed to repair and nourish damaged hair,” Ghosh says. “Look for ingredients like keratin, argan oil, and panthenol that help restore moisture, strengthen the hair, and protect it from further damage.

Being aware of the common hair care mistakes that can lead to breakage and thinning is the first step in maintaining healthy, gorgeous locks. By making a few changes to your hair care routine and giving your hair the TLC it deserves, you'll be well on your way to overcoming these issues and enjoying the luscious, healthy hair you've always dreamed of.”

10 Cute And Easy Styling Ideas For When You Don’t Want To Wear Your Hair Down

10 Winter Hair Colors To Consider For Your Next Glow-Up

Lisa Fogarty is a lifestyle writer and reporter based in New York who covers health, wellness, relationships, sex, beauty, and parenting.

Get Rid Of Dark Circles & Puffiness With This $15 Eye Cream From Amazon

There’s nothing worse than getting a full 8 hours ...

Hair Care Expert Tells Us The Unflattering Haircuts For Thinner Hair Textures

3 Surprising Ingredients Dermatologists Swear By To Make Age Spots And Hyperpigmentation Disappear

We Asked Makeup Artists What Kind Of Blush Is Better For Aging Skin: Liquid, Powder, Or Cream

Spring Dry-Out Is A Real Thing For Skin, Experts Warn–Here's How To Avoid It

Dermatologist-Recommended Skincare Routine For Women In Their 50s

Amazon Shoppers Love This $4.99 Mascara--It Makes Your Lashes *So* Long

Get ready to be amazed by ...

This $5 Lip Gloss Over 60,000 5-Star Reviews On Amazon--It Comes In SO Many Colors

Recently, lip products have become more popular than ever with ...

The Anti-Aging Lipstick Trick You Should Try Immediately To Create The Appearance Of Fuller Lips

The Best Affordable, Natural Hair Care Products To Boost Hair Volume—They Even Work On Thinning Hair!

4 Makeup Trends Women Over 40 Should Avoid Because They Age You Instantly

Barbie' Blonde Hair Is Trending—Here's What You Need To Know Before Attempting This Hair Craze

This $3 Nail Treatment Gives You Longer, Healthier Nails In Just 3 Days--Really!

Keratin has been determined as the holy grail ingredient when ...

This $11 Neck & Chest Firming Cream Has Over 7,000 Five Star Reviews On Amazon

Looking to add a new product to your daily skincare ...

This Centuries-Old Ingredient Is Still Great For Reducing Inflammation In The Skin

This Centuries-Old Ingredient Is Still Great For Reducing Inflammation ...

The 2 Vitamins That Hair Experts Say Does Nothing For Hair Growth

The Bob Hairstyle That Women With Curly Hair Should Never Ask For, Stylists Warn

The Viral ‘Foxy Eye’ Eyebrow Hack That Will Give You An Instant Face Lift