Offering patients a connected and seamless healthcare engagement experience, while eliminating costly data errors and administrative overhead, has long been the goal for patient experience managers and healthcare revenue cycle leaders. RevSpring, the leading provider of healthcare engagement and payment solutions, today announced Next Level Medical, a Texas healthcare company, is utilizing the company’s innovative, personalized digital engagement platform to realize this goal.

The two companies have worked closely to achieve completely seamless patient engagement to drive automated patient data to Veradigm (formerly AllScripts), the PM platform used at all Next Level Urgent Care locations. Among the results, empowering Next Level to scale and drive efficiencies, including doubling the number of its urgent care locations to 44 without adding administrative staff. This implementation has allowed existing Next Level administrative staff to focus on higher level revenue cycle work instead of data entry associated with entering patient data, validating insurance, or collecting copays.

RevSpring enables connected digital engagement through the entire patient journey—beginning with all the necessary steps before patients see providers through clinical interactions to post-service payments. These solutions work seamlessly together according to Next Level’s specifications for the urgent care market and include price estimation; co-pay and insurance determinations and collections; self-service pre-registration and appointment scheduling; a dashboard for staff monitoring of patient self-service activity; a virtual patient waiting room; digital forms that simply and accurately automate forms completion using Optical Character Recognition (OCR); settlement-based reconciliation and merchant services. RevSpring infuses analytics into every product to ensure intelligent connected solutions, as well as full API into the Veradigm system.

“RevSpring understands the nuances of the healthcare business and what we are trying to achieve at Next Level. That is unique,” said Juliet Breeze, MD, Next Level Medical founder and CEO. “Of the other technology companies we considered, the RevSpring solution most fully-embraced our vision. Innovation like OCR, for example, has been an absolute game changer for us. Working with RevSpring, we are pleased with the simplicity of the self-service options we now provide our patients, and the capacity building that creates for our staff and administrative team.”

RevSpring CEO Scott MacKenzie said the partnership with Next Level, coordinating the entire patient journey, represents the best of RevSpring. “Our company vision is focused on making every aspect of the patient experience easier and better, while reducing stress on staff and helping providers achieve financial and important growth objectives,” he said. “It’s extremely gratifying to work with Next Level Medical, a progressive company that shares our vision and is committed to using automation and smart, connected digital technology that is truly on the leading edge in healthcare today.”

Next Level is seeing other benefits from its partnership with RevSpring too. RevSpring’s OCR technology—which allows patients to take photos of their drivers’ licenses and insurance cards, combined with digital forms that patients can complete using their own digital devices—is reducing data errors and the number of front office staff needed at each Next Level Urgent Care location.

Patient participation in NPS satisfaction surveys has increased by nearly 10 percent since Next Level patients have been empowered with digital technology and advanced self-service options from RevSpring.

About Next Level Medical, LLC

One of the fastest growing healthcare organizations in Texas, Next Level Medical, LLC and its family of urgent care and onsite employee health and wellness clinics across the Houston, Austin, and San Antonio metro areas represents the vision of Juliet Breeze, MD, a primary care physician and entrepreneur with more than 20 years of experience in healthcare. The organization is focused on the customer experience, providing quality and affordable healthcare—delivered using proprietary systems, organizational designs and ‘next level’ clinical and business processes.

In the urgent care space, Next Level employes licensed, on-staff healthcare providers procedurally trained to handle a wide range of acute, urgent, medical conditions. Next Level is part of an established referral network and collaborative effort to facilitate continuity of care and other specialized medical services. The clinics offer extended hours seven days a week and on holidays, at a fraction of the price of hospital emergency room or ER clinic visits.

One of the few women physician-led urgent care organizations in Texas, Next Level also provides advanced primary care through its employer-paid, subscription-based membership model called Next Level PRIME. Next Level PRIME members and their families have access to medical care seven days a week for primary care, preventive care, chronic care, urgent care and 24/7 telemedicine and virtual visits. Next Level Medical is reimagining the healthcare experience with low cost, high quality primary care available seven days a week.

About RevSpring

RevSpring leads the market in engagement and payment solutions that inspire patients to participate in and pay for their healthcare. The company has built the industry’s most comprehensive and impactful patient engagement suite, spanning the clinical, operational and payment experience. RevSpring’s OmniChannel communications and payment solutions are backed by behavior analysis, propensity-to-pay scoring, contextual messaging, and user experience best practices. Using proprietary data analytics to tailor the engagement from preservice to post-service, RevSpring improves the patient experience and outcomes for providers, members and patients. To learn more, visit revspringinc.com/healthcare.