If you want to see DML NEWS APP articles without ads, click here.

As the most reliable and balanced news aggregation service on the internet, DML News App offers the following information published by TheHill.com:

Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S. C.) on Wednesday praised the 2024 presidential election pitch from his fellow South Carolina GOP senator, Tim Scott, saying that “it comes from the heart.”

Scott announced earlier in the day that he is launching an exploratory committee for president, setting himself up to potentially become the newest entry into the Republican primary and challenger to former President Trump for the GOP nomination.

“I know America is a land of opportunity, not a land of oppression. I know it because I lived it,” he said in a video announcing the committee’s launch.

I will never back down in defense of the conservative values that make America exceptional.

That’s why I’m announcing my exploratory committee for President of the United States.

I want every American to have the same opportunities I had. pic.twitter.com/HV56pbyKdB

Graham, who has been backing former President Donald Trump, also praised Scott’s announcement.

“When it comes from Tim Scott, it comes from the heart. My friend and colleague Tim Scott has one of the most compelling stories in American politics and the country as a whole,” Graham tweeted.

When it comes from Tim Scott, it comes from the heart.

My friend and colleague Tim Scott has one of the most compelling stories in American politics and the country as a whole. https://t.co/quspzMvGSg

“Tim is a thought leader for conservatism on all fronts. His knowledge of the American economy and belief in the benefits of capitalism make him uniquely prepared to move our country forward.

“Tim is also a steady, strong voice for social conservatism. I am extremely proud of Tim, as well as the former Governor of South Carolina @NikkiHaley as they show what our state has become. Tim will be a powerful force in the 2024 election cycle if he chooses to run.”

I am extremely proud of Tim, as well as the former Governor of South Carolina @NikkiHaley as they show what our state has become.

Tim will be a powerful force in the 2024 election cycle if he chooses to run.

Trump supporter Lindsey Graham praises Tim Scott’s 2024 pitch: “It comes from the heart” https://t.co/BImJ32YELB pic.twitter.com/9Hc9NSjmNu

To get more information about this article, please visit TheHill.com.

The Dennis Michael Lynch Podcast is available below. Never miss an episode. Subscribe to the show by downloading The DML News App or go to Apple Podcasts.