Birds are singing, flowers are blooming, and the weather is warming. We all know what this means at the National Corvette Museum—travel season has officially begun! And there is no better way to enjoy the break than a stop at the National Corvette Museum, located directly off I-65 in Bowling Green, Kentucky. Whether you’re wanting to get off the road and stretch your legs, or the Museum is your destination, we have a little something for everyone.

As you begin your journey through the Museum, become immersed in the history and culture of the Corvette’s invention. Yes, you may see other brands of cars, like the Ford Thunderbird, however, take a moment and read why. Explore the E. Pierce Marshall Memorial Performance Gallery, and see record-setting Corvettes, like the one Corvette Hall of Famer, Tommy Morrison crushed the 24-hour endurance record in!

One of our newest exhibits, Driven by Design, spotlights the creativity and process of how the Corvette is designed. Interactive elements make this exhibit fun for all ages. Enter through the Skydome and be amazed by unique vehicles including the 1 Millionth Corvette, the one and only 1983, and more! For a limited time, see Custom CARisma, an exhibit highlighting the legendary creations of custom car builder, Carl Casper. Don’t forget to commemorate your visit by shopping in the Corvette Store!

Feeling hungry? Grab a bite to eat at the Stingray Grill! The upscale menu features everything from daily specials to delicious burgers, salads, sandwiches, and the popular blackberry grilled cheese! Your taste buds will thank you for treating yourself to this lunch!

Weather permitting, take your family and friends to the NCM Motorsports Park for a thrilling experience! Go Kart racing is perfect for those who are competitive at heart. You could even drive a Corvette or Camaro around the 3.2-mile track! Hot Laps give you the experience of riding with one of our professional drivers. Prepare yourself—this is a thrilling ride that will literally have you thrown back into your seat!

Our 90-minute GM Assembly Plant tour is for those 13 and older. You do not have to be a gearhead to enjoy the 1.5 miles of assembly, but you can enjoy cutting-edge technology paired with the tradition of fine craftsmanship. Tours are limited to 15 guests per slot, and reservations are strongly encouraged.

While in Bowling Green, explore the rest of the area. Bowling Green is home to the Historic Railpark, Beech Bend Raceway and Amusement Park, Lost River Cave, Aviation Heritage Park, Riverview at Hobson Grove Historic House Museum, and the Baker Arboretum and Downing Museum. Take the family to Chaney’s Dairy Barn for delicious ice cream, or explore Jackson’s Orchard for a beautiful day out. Baseball fan? Check out the Bowling Green Hot Rods schedule to catch a game right in the heart of downtown—and there is no more beautiful place to relax after a fun day than Fountain Square Park.