Sprucing Up Your Bathroom: Tips to Attract BuyersWhen it comes to selling a home, every room matters. However, if the kitchen is the heart of the home, the bathroom can be considered the brains. It’s where you spend time alone, pondering your thoughts, and it’s an area that can make or break a potential sale. If your bathroom is looking dingy, it might be time to give it a spruce-up. Here are some tips to make your loo more attractive to potential buyers without breaking the bank. A sparkling clean bathroom is the easiest and most cost-effective way to give it a glow-up. Remove stubborn stains from the toilet or sink by using white vinegar or lemon juice. If grout has discoloured, use a combination of white vinegar, bicarbonate of soda, and an old toothbrush to get rid of any mould or dirt. Ensure all surfaces are clean and clutter-free.If you have a shower curtain, ensure it looks clean and fresh, with no visible mould marks. If it’s old and worn, consider investing in a new one. If you have a shower or bath screen, get rid of any water marks and dry it with a cloth after cleaning.You don’t need to spend a fortune on fancy rain showers or wood panelling to create a welcoming and relaxing bathroom. Use accessories like matching towels, reed diffusers, neatly arranged shower gels, and bubble baths. Get rid of old or stained toothbrush holders and soap dishes, replacing them with a matching set.Even small bathrooms need storage. Invest in a slimline mirrored wall cabinet to hide your toiletries away and give the illusion of more space. If you have space and budget, consider a vanity unit under the basin. Avoid open shelving unless you’re a neat freak.If your bathroom doesn’t have a window, you may want to brighten it up. White paint with a slight sheen can brighten up a dull space, and white accessories like towels and bathmats will give it a lighter feel.In conclusion, a dingy bathroom can put off potential buyers, but with these tips, you can easily spruce it up and attract more interest in your property. Contact us to learn more about how we can help you sell your home.This blog follows the buy-to-let market in Chelmsford. You'll find tips, guidance, and analysis that relates specifically to Chelmsford and you'll also find properties from all the estate agents in the town on here that may make decent investments. I operate Martin and Co in Chelmsford and if you're thinking of buying a property to let in Chelmsford, I'm happy to offer a second opinion. Stephen Frost FARLA ANAEA

Hi, and thank you for visiting this blog. I have been in the Chelmsford Property market since 2008, owning and running with my excellent colleagues, the Martin and Co office in Chelmsford. I am also a Buy to Let Mortgage Adviser helping Landlords like you. I have always shared my thoughts on the local property market in Chelmsford with my landlords, but now I want to share with everyone in the town. On this blog, Emma and I will talk about what is happening in the town's property market itself, even looking at specific streets or housing estates. At other times, we will post what we consider decent buy to let deals. Some will be on the market with me (as we also sell property), but others will be on the market with other agents in Chelmsford. We like to look at the whole of market and give you, what we consider the best investment opportunities. StephenI am very experienced Estate Agent and a Fellow of ARLA (The Association of Residential Lettings Agents). I have 25+ years’ experience in the local Property Market, starting as a Trainee Sales Negotiator for a Corporate Agency. Working my way up through the ranks I have spent my entire working career in the Customer Service Industry. Born in Chelmsford, I am married with 4 Children. In my spare time, I enjoy spending time with the family, playing golf and going out for a run!

I am the Mortgage Adviser at The Mortgage Genie Central Essex, based with the Martin & Co Office. I have been a big part of the Martin & Co family for the last 12 years, being the son of the big boss! I have a passion for helping people move! In my spare time, I enjoy taking the dog for a walk with my fiancée, playing golf and spending time with my family.

Sprucing Up Your Bathroom: Tips to Attract Buyers

Moving Home Just Got Less Stressful