Lucira Health (NASDAQ:LHDXQ – Get Rating) is one of 42 public companies in the “Diagnostic substances” industry, but how does it weigh in compared to its competitors? We will compare Lucira Health to related businesses based on the strength of its risk, institutional ownership, profitability, dividends, analyst recommendations, valuation and earnings.

This is a breakdown of recent ratings and target prices for Lucira Health and its competitors, as reported by MarketBeat.com.

As a group, “Diagnostic substances” companies have a potential upside of 37.65%. Given Lucira Health’s competitors  higher possible upside, analysts plainly believe Lucira Health has less favorable growth aspects than its competitors.

This table compares Lucira Health and its competitors revenue, earnings per share (EPS) and valuation.

Lucira Health’s competitors have higher revenue and earnings than Lucira Health. Lucira Health is trading at a higher price-to-earnings ratio than its competitors, indicating that it is currently more expensive than other companies in its industry.

57.0% of Lucira Health shares are held by institutional investors. Comparatively, 45.4% of shares of all “Diagnostic substances” companies are held by institutional investors. 30.4% of Lucira Health shares are held by company insiders. Comparatively, 14.1% of shares of all “Diagnostic substances” companies are held by company insiders. Strong institutional ownership is an indication that hedge funds, endowments and large money managers believe a company will outperform the market over the long term.

This table compares Lucira Health and its competitors’ net margins, return on equity and return on assets.

Lucira Health has a beta of 3.38, meaning that its stock price is 238% more volatile than the S&P 500. Comparatively, Lucira Health’s competitors have a beta of 1.38, meaning that their average stock price is 38% more volatile than the S&P 500.

Lucira Health beats its competitors on 7 of the 10 factors compared.

Lucira Health Inc. is a medical technology company. It is focused on the development and commercialization of transformative and infectious disease test kits. Lucira Health Inc. is based in Emeryville, California.

Receive News & Ratings for Lucira Health Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Lucira Health and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter.