These 25 common bits of equipment still have a way to go, as nominated by Reddit users.

“Cutlery, they try to reinvent it, but if sticks are enough to do the job….”

“Get yourself a knork. It’s almost all I use.” – A Reddit-using knork lover shared.

“I work traffic control, I asked, ‘how would you guys do this 30 years ago?’ [and they would say] ‘The exact same way.’”

“I’ve been at it for 5 years. We got a lot of rules, as you know regulations are written in blood.”

“Advancement in the field of ladders pales in comparison to aerospace technology, despite them having the same general goal.”

“There are so many cool ladders now. It did slow down a bit for a while there, but in the last 2 years I’ve seen like 6 to 10 new types.”

“They’re actively making them worse. 1990’s printers didn’t run out of ink until they actually ran out of ink.”

“Man, I miss that. Also missed the plug & play ones. HP instant ink printers suck & getting them to do simple stuff without an HP Instant Ink account is damn near impossible.”

“A lot of this is to comply with the standards and security of exams.”

“I used to use a TI-84, then I got pretty deep in electrical engineering and hated how limited it was with complex numbers. Ended up getting the n-spire but couldn’t get the CAS version cause a lot of my classes don’t allow them.”

“Men’s basic fashion. And I’m glad. Nothing I own gets out of fashion. Jeans and t-shirts are the same forever for men.”

“The fax machine was invented in 1843. Lincoln died in 1865. The last samurai died in 1877. So for 21 years between 1844, and 1865, a samurai could have theoretically faxed Lincoln.

The fact that we still have fax machines boggles my mind and infuriates me. I’m sure they changed a lot between 1844 and now, but it’s insane that we’re still using them in 2023.”

“If I can make a secure purchase online with 9-factor authentication … why can’t I vote?”

“Because a significant percentage of the people in power don’t particularly want voting to be easier (particularly for the “wrong” people).”

“There has to be a better way than drinking a bunch of s and pooping all night.”

“On top of that, the cost of it. I have UC and had three before [the] age of 35 and need another. Stick that camera up my a** and get it over with.”

“Bluetooth is frustratingly awful given how long it has been out.”

“Bluetooth in cars sounds like WW1 radio.” – another user agreed.

“I remember when I was a kid, everyone got excited for a minute when Gibson announced it was launching self-tuning robot guitar technology. Don’t know if it worked well or not, but [it] doesn’t seem to have caught on.”

“Ever noticed the cord breaks by the end that plugs into phones and laptop power cords always loosen up just where the cord goes in, so you’re forced to get it fixed or lose your data?”

“They were invented in the 1960s and are overdue to be replaced by chips and contactless payment. Mastercard is phasing them out next year, and I expect other banks to follow suit.”

“‘I understand what you’re saying… But what I said was bite down on this stick so I can saw your arm off. I’ll have you back home in time for you to make dinner tonight.’”

“For all the tech and advancements we think we have made with asphalt, the best surface over time is still concrete.”

“I don’t think they have even added new features in the last 30 years.”

“When it first came out, it was touted as the new way to cook everything from Bundt cakes to pot roast. Now, all we really use it for is to heat up leftovers.”

“I need more than a 120p grayish blob.”

“I was just thinking the other day: I feel like lawnmower technology hasn’t changed much, if at all, since I was a kid.”

“Stuff like vacuums have at least developed Roombas and whatnot. Where are the relatively safe, autonomous lawn mowers that don’t wake up the entire neighborhood?”

“Any ‘advancements’ they have are pointless gimmicks, with the only thing making them any better is offering better build quality if you build one yourself.”

“What you’re getting now is an inferior product for the same price because forced RGB lighting is part of what you’re paying for at any price point if you want any mechanical keyboard.”

“The process used to make dental impressions for night guards, Invisalign, etc. I swear it’s the same gag-inducing goop and tray used when I got braces in the 1970s.”

“Aside from x-rays and other frills, filling cavities is done the same way as 100 years ago! DRILL, PAIN, DRILL, PAIN, PULL WITH PLIERS, PAIN!!!!”

“Always the last to advance just to make sure the tech has demonstrated success & safety consistently over time.”

“Planes haven’t improved drastically in a very long time because why reinvent the wheel when you could perfect something that’s already proven to be very safe.”

“They advanced a little bit the first few years, but for the last ten years, they’ve basically been the same device but with higher numbers in the name.”

“Maybe on the surface in terms of functionality, but what lies under the ho” od (hardware/software) has changed pretty drastically.”

“I haven’t seen many noteworthy things since, idk, the 90s, maybe?”

Also, why isn’t there format presets for APA, MLA, Chicago, etc.? Specifically, APA format outlines follows specific rules, and Word will actively fight you trying to do it.”

“The modern umbrella first went on the market 500 years ago. There have been no significant advancements in that time. The mechanism is the same now as it was then.

Synthetic materials are now more often used, which is probably the biggest change, but they still function exactly the same way now as they did 500 years ago.”

Although there’s been lots of advancement in materials and now electric motors, the basic shape of the bicycle is unchanged from many hundreds of years ago.”

MORE FROM BECAUSE MOM SAYS:

We wanted to know – what things seem to get praise in our culture but absolutely shouldn’t?

THE DECAY OF OUR MORALS: 18 DISTURBING TRENDS IN OUR SOCIETY WE GLORIFY BUT SHOULDN’T

Memories of the “good old days” keep us trapped in the past. Baby boomers love to retell tales of how it was “in my day.” At the same time, millennials will tell them to get with the times. Being stuck in a time warp from which they don’t want to snap out of, here are things that baby boomers still think are fantastic.

STUCK IN THE 60S: 10 THINGS BABY BOOMERS REFUSE TO LET GO OF

You may think that, finally, you have your man figured out. How wrong you were. Here are 10 things men love that you may find surprising, according to Reddit.

10 THINGS MEN DESIRE THAT WILL MAKE WOMEN RAISE THEIR EYEBROWS

We wanted to know what hobbies are a big fat nope.

THE RED FLAGS ARE WAVING: 18 HOBBIES THAT WILL SCARE AWAY ANY POTENTIAL PARTNER

Regarding men and women, it seems like we’re from different planets, though we are the same species. Women always come across as enigmatic, a mystery men must fathom. Yet, men can be just as challenging to understand. Here are ten things that men wish women knew about them. Hopefully, this helps females gain deeper insight into the world of men. (According to Reddit)

WAKE UP, LADIES! THE 10 BITTER TRUTHS MEN WISH WOMEN WOULD FINALLY ACKNOWLEDGE