It’s time to pack away the boots and puffers and reach for the fake tan, spring dress season is upon us. And the high street is already awash with frocks that rock — several of which will leave you change from £100. Make a beeline for good quality natural fabrics like linen, cotton and denim, and the best dress-vestments are those that work with boots and a leather jacket now, and sandals and sunnies once the weather warms. Here’s what to shop:

Mary Quant gave women skimpy skirts in which to sashay through the Swinging Sixties, and since news of her passing last week, the effect is set to storm fashion once again. And how better to pay homage than in a micro mini? Good quality fabrics and high-neck silhouettes are the trick to keeping it fash not trash. Reformation’s Jessi crew neck linen mini (£145; shop here) is as chic as it is short, and comes in an excellent retro geometric print, or pair H&M’s hot pink sleeveless boucle dress (£29.99; shop here) with big black shades and kitten heels for Jackie O glam.

Retro patterns are another route in — try Mango’s brown zigzag lurex mini (£79.99; shop here) with platforms, or Kitri’s mandarin collar Harlow mini (£135; shop here), which comes in a black and beige blurred floral print not entirely dissimilar to Quant’s iconic daisy logo.

If you lived in your cosy knit midi this winter, there’s no reason you can’t continue in comfort come spring — just look for shorter sleeves and lighter colours and switch out cashmere and woollen styles for more sweaty Tube-friendly cotton and viscose-heavy blends. H&M stocks lots of lovely options for under £40, and Massimo Dutti has a button-front fine black knit midi with flared sleeves (£119; shop here) which looks great with sandals and a leather jacket or dressed up for the evening with strappy stilettos.

For something more summery, try eco London label Nobody’s Child’s chevron print crochet knit midi dress (£75; shop here), which is made from 100 per cent organic cotton and comes in chic black and beige or a cutesy pink and cream.

Like ice-cold rosé in sunny pub gardens, nothing semaphores summer like crisp white cotton on tanned skin. Whatever your preferred silhouette, a brilliant white dress is a timeless investment that, provided you shop around for good quality 100 per cent cotton, should last for many a summer to come.

Mango has a puff-sleeve high-neck white mini (£55.99; shop here) that looks great paired with brown suede boots, suede boots, while Zara’s got plenty of collared white midis crisp enough for the office.

Boho is back, baby! Prepare for a summer of floaty kaftans, big gold hoops and beaded boleros, a Seventies revival spurred by the arrival of Daisy Jones & the Six on our TV screens last month. According to Pinterest Trends, searches for “retro 70s fashion” are up 4,500 per cent year-on-year, with “70s summer fashion” up 100 per cent in the past week. For haute hippie florals try Cos’s button-front puff sleeve midi (£135; shop here), which comes in a dreamy sepia tone print and is made from tree hugger-friendly Lyocell, a fabric crafted from renewable wood sources, using a process that recycles 99 per cent of all chemicals and water.

Free People is a bountiful emporium of paisley prints and tassels — try the Happy Feelings midi dress (£158; shop here) which is perfect for picnics and holidays, or wear with tan cowboy boots and stacked gold jangly bangles for ultimate Woodstock points.

If you’re in the market for something as office-appropriate as it is warm weather-ready, look no further than a shirt dress; your one-stop-shop for looking elegant and put-together. “The classic shirt dress is a versatile and stylish piece that works for the office but also for your weekend wardrobe,” says Georgina Coulter, Head of Buying at The Outnet, who’s noticed customers shopping brands like Ganni and Sandro for contemporary, casual styles that can be worn with trainers.

Sézane’s linen and cotton blend beige stripe maxi (£165; shop here) is effortlessly elegant, while its short-sleeve Celia mini (£150; shop here) is perfect for when the temperatures rise. For a more feminine take, add florals — Zara’s blue-and-white belted button-front printed midi (£49.99; shop here) is pretty without being prissy.

One look at the spring/ summer 2023 runways and the decree was clear: denim domination of our wardrobes continues. Baggy jeans and denim maxis are new and trending but the denim dress is also not going anywhere for summer 2023. “It’s a classic staple item for any wardrobe,” says Claire Miles, Head of Fashion Own Brand at John Lewis, who’s betting on denim maxi dresses for summer ’23.

Warehouse and Whistles both have belted denim midi dresses in the sale, while London label Albaray has a long-sleeved denim shirt dress (£120; shop here) that’s perfect for chillier spring days. Aligne’s mid-blue Gabriella midi (£99; shop here) is made from 100 per cent cotton (and 50 per cent less water than regular denim) and is practical, with pockets and a throw-on half zip design. Or for something with more of a preppier feel, try a Levi’s Sabine mini (now £50; shop here) paired with white socks and loafers.