He’s been a fixture of Bulldog baseball for over four decades. Now Ron Polk is a permanent presence with a statue of the legendary Mississippi State skipper.

Mississippi State formally unveiled the life-sized and well-detailed statue Friday afternoon. It stands at the Adkerson Plaza entrance, at the rightfield entrance to Polk-Dement Stadium. Besides the entire venue already bearing Polk’s name, there is also the adjacent Ron Polk Ring of Honor where each Mississippi State season a number of Diamond Dog greats are added.

Addressing a couple-thousand gathered for the ceremony, many of them former players, in pure RP style “I’m going to stand in front of you and try to be humble,” Polk said. “Which you know for me that’s hard to do.”

If anyone ever associated with Bulldog baseball, for that matter any Mississippi State, earned a right to arrogance…it was Polk. Still is, in fact, as he now serves as a special assistant to the director. What that special role may be is anyone’s guess. But the man Polk is charged with assisting is enjoying the association.

“He’s authentically himself,” new athletics director Zac Selmon said. “He’s one of one.”

Actually Ronald G. Polk is forever #1 with Mississippi State, and the bronze image bears that jersey digit in back. In front, the arms are crossed and chin thrust forward as if considering an offensive call…or umpiring protest. The statue was a work of Rusty Reid, who also formed and finished those of Wlll Clark and Rafael Palmeiro which greet all at the main gate of Polk-Dement Stadium. Reid said Polk was entirely cooperative in the year-long design and construction.

Though, from the first two-foot clay mockup to an eight-foot foam version, “He only had one question,” said Reid. “Tell me again how tall it is?” Height being no small part of the Polk persona in the sport, he also joked about bringing a tape to measure the finished product upon unveiling.

He didn’t. Instead Polk posed for the long, long, long line of former Diamond Dogs to take their photographic turns. As Polk had to exit in time for his game broadcast job, the general public will have their own chances for a snap with coach and statue both Saturday and Sunday prior to those contests.

Which is only fair. Much as what Diamond Dogs did to put this program on the college baseball map, generations of fans made Mississippi State mythical. Yet it was, is, and will always be entirely real. University president Dr. Mark Keenum, an admitted denizen of the original Left Field Lounge in his own time called Polk “Without a doubt, the greatest baseball coach to coach the game.”

Dr. Keenum also expounded on the frequent—and correct—labeling of Polk as the ‘godfather of SEC baseball.’ “He is the godfather of college baseball. In fact, he wrote the textbook,” a reference to Polk’s half-century standard tome The Baseball/Softball Playbook.

Polk’s resume at Mississippi State alone merits memorializing and not just at the stadium where he made most of his name. He coached both Georgia Southern and the University of Georgia to league championships as well as College World Series berths, giving him a unique professional status by taking three different programs to Omaha.

Just a short call of the Polk achievements and honors:

*1,139 career wins as head coach with Mississippi State in tours from 1976-1997 and 2002-08;

*The first SEC skipper to reach the 1,000 win mark; and 1,373 career victories at all stops which ranks him 18th all-time.

*Five of the program’s eleven Southeastern Conference championships, as well as another league crown in his two seasons at Georgia;

*Four times the SEC’s Coach of the Year;

*Twice the ABCA national Coach of the Year;

*Coach of 33 All-American selections, 71 All-SEC picks, 19 first-round and a total 187 draft choices by Major League Baseball with 29 of those making it to the big leagues:

*And, inducted into the ABCA Hall of Fame in 1995, as well as the National College Baseball Hall of Fame in 2009.

Of course it would not have been a ceremony involving RP without a fair number of comic comments from himself and other speakers. Polk did not pass up a public chance to remind of his long and often futile feud with the National Collegiate Athletics Association regarding the body’s policies which in most coaching minds held back the sport for decades.

Pulling out a folded paper Polk read what he called a letter from the NCAA’s executive committee thanking him for his long services, and offering old copies of his photograph dotted by thrown darts. It was a joke, Polk admitted, there’s no such letter. No, but it was pure Polk.

So is his residence which has been turned into a Bulldog baseball shrine of sorts. Selmon, hired in January, said only on Easter weekend did he finally get a chance to tour Polk’s house. “I don’t know if I’d refer to it as a home as much as a museum.”

So now there are three statues gracing the exterior of today’s Polk-Dement Stadium, opened in 2019 and regarded universally as the finest college baseball venue on any campus. About this trio, Polk did not pass up an opportunity for another trademark quip.

“Some other players think they should have a statue, too. They didn’t hit enough or pitch enough,” he said. Much more seriously and with genuine emotion, though, Polk credited his own honor with all those who wore the uniform on Dudy Noble Field.

“This statue reflects on every one of you guys that are here today and those who cannot be here.”