Samantha Ruth Prabhu is a well-known name in the South Indian film industry, who has carved a niche for herself with her acting skills and charm. She has come a long way since her debut in the film industry and has emerged as a successful actress with several accolades to her name. However, recent comments by a Telugu film producer, Chittibabu, have raised eyebrows and sparked controversy.

SEE ALSO: Samantha Prabhu To Join 'Pushpa 2' With 'Oo Antava' Reprise? Composer Braces Fans For 'Surprises'

In his latest interview, Chittibabu made some derogatory comments about Samantha Ruth Prabhu's career, claiming that she should do whatever work she is offered since she has lost her status as a star heroine. He also said that she did the dance number Oo Antava right after her divorce because she had lost her stardom. He also criticized her promotional tactics, stating that her emotional appeals for sympathy were cheap and insane acts. Moreover, he questioned her suitability for the role of Shakuntala, given her supposed loss of stardom.

As per Koimoi, while speaking to Filmy Looks, Chittibabu said, "Samantha Ruth Prabhu did Oo Antava item song in Pushpa The Rise after her divorce. She did it for her livelihood. After losing the status of a star heroine, she is doing whatever offers she is getting. Her career as the heroine is finished and she cannot get back to stardom again. She should continue her journey doing the offers she gets.

He continued and said, "During Yashoda's promotions, she shed tears in promotions and tried to score a hit. Now ahead of Shaakuntalam, she did the same trying to get sympathy saying she planned to do the role before she dies and went on record that she was unable to speak as she couldn’t get her voice out of her throat. Every time sentiment will not work. If the role and film is good people will watch. All these are cheap and insane acts. I wonder how Samantha who lost her heroine status suited for the role of Shakuntala. I do not have any interest in Shaakuntalam."

While Samantha Ruth Prabhu did not respond to these comments directly, her recent Instagram post quoting the Bhagavad Gita suggests that she is focused on her karma, or her actions, and not on the opinions of others. It read, "Karmanye vadhika taste, Ma phaleshu kadachana, Ma karma phala he tur bhuh, Ma te sangotsva karmani."