Alight (NYSE:ALIT – Get Rating) and Swvl (NASDAQ:SWVL – Get Rating) are both computer and technology companies, but which is the better investment? We will contrast the two businesses based on the strength of their risk, analyst recommendations, profitability, valuation, institutional ownership, earnings and dividends.

This is a summary of recent ratings for Alight and Swvl, as provided by MarketBeat.com.

Alight presently has a consensus price target of $13.50, indicating a potential upside of 45.01%. Swvl has a consensus price target of $4.83, indicating a potential upside of 323.98%. Given Swvl’s  higher probable upside, analysts clearly believe Swvl is more favorable than Alight.

Alight has a beta of 0.69, indicating that its stock price is 31% less volatile than the S&P 500. Comparatively, Swvl has a beta of -0.55, indicating that its stock price is 155% less volatile than the S&P 500.

This table compares Alight and Swvl’s net margins, return on equity and return on assets.

This table compares Alight and Swvl’s top-line revenue, earnings per share and valuation.

Alight has higher revenue and earnings than Swvl.

95.7% of Alight shares are held by institutional investors. Comparatively, 16.3% of Swvl shares are held by institutional investors. 3.7% of Alight shares are held by insiders. Comparatively, 29.9% of Swvl shares are held by insiders. Strong institutional ownership is an indication that hedge funds, endowments and large money managers believe a company is poised for long-term growth.

Alight beats Swvl on 9 of the 12 factors compared between the two stocks.

Alight, Inc. operates as a cloud-based provider of integrated digital human capital and business solutions worldwide. It operates through three segments: Employer Solutions, Professional Services, and Hosted Business. The company's solutions enable employees to enrich their health, wealth, and wellbeing, which helps organizations achieve a high-performance culture. It offers employer solutions comprising integrated benefits administration, healthcare navigation, financial health, employee wellbeing, and payroll; and professional services, including cloud deployment and consulting offerings that provides human capital and financial platforms, as well as cloud advisory and deployment, and optimization services for cloud platforms, such as Workday, SAP SuccessFactors, Oracle, and Cornerstone OnDemand. Alight, Inc. was founded in 2017 and is headquartered in Lincolnshire, Illinois.

Swvl Holdings Corp. provides mass transit ridesharing services. It offers B2C Swvl Retail, which provides riders with a network of minibuses and other vehicles running on fixed or semi-fixed routes within cities; Swvl Travel that allows riders to book rides on long-distance intercity routes on vehicle available through the Swvl platform or through third-party services; and Swvl Business, a transport as a service enterprise product for businesses, schools, municipal transit agencies, and other customers. The company was incorporated in 2017 and is headquartered in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates.

Receive News & Ratings for Alight Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Alight and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter.