A rumour that ‘Bud Light loses $4 billion’ has gone viral after the beer brand and its parent company, Anheuser-Busch, are being questioned as the anti-woke community continues to protest against its association with Dylan Mulvaney.

The American beer brewing company, however, appears to be mostly unaffected by the controversy it’s embroiled in after using a transgender influencer as its spokesperson.

The conservatives are doing everything in their power to boycott Bud Light, including circulating false rumors like Budweiser lost $800 million in a single day and that their CEO Augustus Anheuser Busch III resigned in the wake of the drama.

Some were even made to believe that Bud Light’s Vice President for marketing was fired after she expressed her thoughts on inclusivity.

Now, ‘Bud Light has lost $4 billion’ rumour is going viral, and this isn’t true either.

A number of critics and people from the anti-woke community are closely analyzing the charts to determine Anheuser-Busch’s stock value, but they still seem to have got it wrong.

A chart showing the parent company’s stock for the first 10 days of April depicts the market cap to have gone from 132.38 billion to 128.40 billion as of today, April 11.

However, this doesn’t necessarily mean that its sales have dropped by 70 per cent, as some have claimed.

The stock price has, in fact, risen from $64.96 on Monday, to $65.50 on Tuesday, April 11, reports Reuters. It’s also reported that the first plunge in stocks a day ago “came after a 10-day win streak, which vaulted Anheuser-Busch stock to 52-week highs.”

Furthermore, a spokesperson for Anheuser-Busch told the outlets that there is no truth to previous claims that the company lost $800 million in a day either.

Anheuser-Busch’s inactivity on social media has further fueled assumptions that the company is experiencing a downfall, but Bud Light’s Vice President, Alissa Heinerscheid, and a representative who issued a statement earlier have publicly shown their support for the LGBTQ community.

Commenting on the Dylan Mulvaney collaboration, a spokesperson said: “From time to time, we produce unique commemorative cans for fans and for brand influencers, like Dylan Mulvaney. This commemorative can was a gift to celebrate a personal milestone and is not for sale to the general public.”

Meanwhile, Alissa said her aim since the time she started working with Bud Light was to evolve the brand with inclusivity.

The mere thought of Bud Light going woke still jangles people’s nerves in 2023 despite many beer brands openly supporting the LGBTQ community.

Those who are protesting the commercial featuring Dylan have called out the beer company for not taking into consideration the emotions of its supposed traditional customers.

Many have opined that having Dylan’s face on cans, which weren’t for sale anyway, was pushing gender propaganda, as opposed to the conservative values that recognize only the genders one is born into.

In other news, Is the Dalai Lama married or has he had a wife?