Skip to main content

Education is the process of facilitating learning, or the acquisition of knowledge, skills, values, beliefs, and habits. Educational methods include storytelling, discussion, teaching, training, and directed research.

New England College Will Close Manchester Campus Scott Jaschik Tue, 04/18/2023 - 12:00 AM   from Inside Higher Ed https://ift.tt/JG0t7Qs

Why Is Middle School So Hard for So Many People?

Middle school. The very memory of it prompts disgust. Here’s a thing no one’s thinking: Geez, I wish I still looked the way I did when I was 12.  Middle school is the worst.  Tweenhood, which starts around age 9 , is horrifying for a few reasons. For one, the body morphs in weird and scary ways. Certain parts expand faster than others, sometimes so fast that they cause literal growing pains; hair grows in awkward locations, often accompanied by awkward smells. And many kids face new schools and a new set of rules for how to act, both socially and academically.  But middle school doesn’t have to be like this. It could be okay. It could be good , even. After all, middle schoolers are “kind of the best people on Earth,” says Mayra Cruz, the principal of Oyster-Adams Bilingual School, a public middle school in Washington, D. C.  The notion that middle school deserves its own educational ecosystem at all dates back to the 1960s , with a campaign to better accommodate the specific learning ne

Author discusses book on fight for racial equality at UNC

Image:          The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill continues to make history in its treatment of Black people.  This month, the university won (at the district court level) a federal suit challenging its use of affirmative action  to admit students. The judge in the case ruled the university was appropriately considering students’ races in making admissions decision.  But in the spring, the university declined to award tenure to Nikole Hannah-Jones , an acclaimed New York Times  journalist. The university said she could come to the university without tenure -- even though past holders of the chair she would have assumed had been awarded tenure. Hannah-Jones is Black; the board members ruling on her tenure case were white. The university eventually relented on offering her tenure, but Hannah-Jones took another job, at Howard University.  Most of Getta N. Kapur’s new book -- To Drink From the Well: The Struggle for Racial Equality at the Nation’s Oldest Public University  -

Blog:    Higher Ed Gamma       We live in a society acutely conscious of age.  Ours is also an intensely age segregated society and a society that denigrates whole groups of people based on their age.     Age can be a milestone and a guidepost – nothing wrong with that.  But age can also play a much more negative role.  It can be exclusionary: an artificial barrier that separates one age group off from another. It can also be coercive: Telling you what you can or can’t do based on your age.  We tell people that they’re too old to continue working or to live alone.   Between the colonial era and the late 20th century, age became the dominant instrument for organizing society.  Even more than gender, it became the chief way to understand the process of maturation, and to allot legal status and categories of responsibility.  In recent years, however, age has lost some of its prescriptive power, and colleges, as well as other social institutions, need to adapt to this pivotal development.