"Every new beginning comes from some other beginning's end." - Semisonic

Also from the same song - "You don't have to go home, but you can't stay here."  Sorry, Aaron. Thanks for everything but... It. Is. Time.

I could just stop there... but I'll continue.

Jordan Love  - However Jordan Love turns out, the biggest problem fans will have (even if he's really good) is getting used to the Packers' offense committing more turnovers. We Packers fans have been blessed with watching the most turnover-averse quarterback in NFL history, and there is just no way Jordan Love (or pretty much anyone) can approach the standard Rodgers set. So you just have to accept that fact right now and don't be whining about it when he throws more INTs than Rodgers ever did. It's going to happen.

More Love - It's always interesting to look back at previous draft guides to see what was said about players that became Green Bay Packers, Here's a particularly interesting one:

The Draft Fave Wave - The four weeks before the draft is always entertaining from the respect that certain prospects become Packers Draft favorites for a week and then it's someone new the next week. This past week EVERYONE was singing the praises of Darnell Wright - not that there's anything wrong with that. He was my #4 tackle for my CHTV Draft Guide OT rankings, but that was taking in his potential fit for the Packers. If I somehow knew that LaFleur is planning to mix in more power scheme this year, Wright would certainly have been in my top 3. As I stated in the guide, for a pure power-scheme team, Wright could very well be the top tackle on their board. Regardless of scheme, the Packers could do a lot worse than drafting Darnell Wright to be their right tackle.

Gutey - There is a good contingent of fans who think that Brian Gutenkunst is a terrible GM. We have some here (don't be offended by this), I see them on twitter and elsewhere. In the majority of cases, I find the explanations of such an opinion to be rather myopic, looking only at supposed hits and missies in a Green Bay vacuum. I've always believed that you have to analyze an NFL GM's performance in comparison to the 31 other people in the same position. And even at that, the person doing the comparing needs to be someone who is extremely familiar with ALL teams in the NFL, and preferably covers the ENTIRE NFL for a living, Well lo and behold, here we have such a person - Gregg Rosenthal of NFL.com. Much like Rich Gosselin, who does his special teams rankings every year, Gregg evaluates NFL GMs every year. This years' rankings (you can read them here) has Gutey as the eighth best GM overall in the NFL. Not last, not bottom third, but in the top 25% of all NFL GMs. In fairness, he dropped down four spots this year from the 2022 rankings, likely because of the Rodgers contract, which I do consider a knock against him, while understanding why he did it. What's the point of all this? To me, if you come on here or somewhere else and tell me that Gutey is horrible - you just lose any credibility in my eyes. If you want to say he's closer to middle of the road, I'll listen to what you have to say, while mildly disagreeing with your premise.

Still Time: Only EIGHT days left before the draft. Be prepared! The CHTV Draft Guide is available to order right here.