Australians can once again get their hands on popular 90s toy Tamagotchis

Australians can once again get their hands on popular 90s toy Tamagotchis

Nostalgic Aussies are rushing to Target following the rerelease of a popular kids toy from the 90s.

An assortment of Tamagotchis have quietly appeared on the Target website for $29 each, and customers haven't wasted any time snatching one up for themselves.

The egg-shaped digital pet rose in popularity so quickly following its release in 1996 that children became obsessed with keeping their tamagotchi alive.

The newly released Target product is designed will all the same features as the original Tamagotchi - including three small buttons at the bottom to interact with the pet and a chain at the top.

Customers can feed their Tamagotchi, clean up after it, take care of it, and even discipline it.

A 'character game' is also programmed into the toy to determine which of the seven Adult Tamagotchi you'll get.

Just like the original, the Tamagotchi will hatch from an egg and grow from child to adult - assuming it's been well taken care of.

If the Tamagotchi is left unattended for too long it will die.

The product is suitable for kids aged eight and above and several different case patterns are available.

So far the product has received 62 reviews on the Target website, averaging a star rating of 4.4.

Many customers not only bought the toy for themselves but for their kids too.

'I bought this purely out of nostalgia, I had one in the 90's. Great fun, beautiful design on the shell, mine is the pink and blue plaid one,' one customer wrote.

'The graphics are great, just like I remember. Needs a lot of attention though, they die easily.'

Another wrote: 'Great trip down nostalgia lane. Cute, colourful and just as I remembered it from years ago. It's a good companion, listens to all your problems.'

'I have such fond memory's of Tamagotchis and when I saw them on the 'shelves' of Online Target I immediately put it in my basket and checked-out. My Tamagotchi baby is only a few days old and I am completely in love with it,' a third added.

But a selected few were 'disappointed' as shoppers can't choose their preferred Tamagotchi colour.

'Was really disappointed that I couldn't pick the colours. Now I'm sitting with four very girly tamagotchis while two of these were intended as gifts for young boys,' one wrote.

Another said: 'It is kinda boring and it is so bad I threw it away.'