Nollywood actor, Kunle Remi can’t believe his luck after his fans bombarded him with love following his AMVCA snub.

Hours after crying for help and requesting money from his fans, the actor took to his Instagram page to share screenshots of the credit alert.

An overwhelmed Kunle Remi appreciated his fans and followers for the love.

He stated that his pain is finally gone and he didn’t bother about the AMVCA snub.

“You guys and your fhingz…blew me away…thank you for the love! My pain is gone. No more AMVCA pain”.

Kunle Remi cries out for help as he ventures into a new business

The overflow of love is coming after Kunle Remi cried out for help.

Taking to his Instagram page, Kunle Remi shared a video of him in tears as he revealed that he is getting into a new business since he wasn’t being recognized in Nollywood.

He expressed how overwhelmed he was over the love, messages, and pities he has been getting. However, he didn’t want to be pitied, rather he wants people to send him money.

According to him, money is the only thing that can ease his pain and no amount is too small for him.

“As they didn’t nominate me for AMVCA and I am seeing all the love, all the messages, and all the pities, it’s getting to me guys.

But please let’s just stop with the pity and then the tags it’s okay for now.

I am fine just send me money, money is going to take care of all the pain I a feeling. Just send me some money, it’s not too small. Whatever it is I am okay.

Thank you, guys, seems I am not qualified as a nominated actor, let me just keep influencing.

I will just continue killing flies and mosquitoes with snipers”.

Earlier on, Kemi Filani reported that the movie star had responded after being excluded from the list of nominees for the Africa Magic Viewers’ Choice Awards (AMVCA).

The actor who starred in ‘Anikulapo’, one of the most talked about movies last year 2022. The movie did so well that it got sixteen nominations however its major character was snubbed.

Kunle had however reacted to this, he appreciated his fans for reaching out to him to encourage him. Kunle went on to congratulate his friends and colleagues who made the list.

He wrote: “I have seen all the tags after the AMVCA nomination announcement. It would be nonchalant not to appreciate the love, calls, and messages. Thank you kindred.

“First of all, congratulations to all my friends/colleagues this year won’t be great without y’all’s amazing work and effort. God save una, cos if I Dey the categories I for win (Joke) before una say otherwise. Let the best man win. P. S- Please someone should check on deyemitheactor ”

“KR Kindred… you know how it is… we keep catching fun and doing fhingz. and many more fhingz”.