The Crown Princess of Greece has created the most adorably chic item to commemorate King Charles III's coronation

The Crown Princess of Greece has created the most adorably chic item to commemorate King Charles III's coronation

Alongside her role as the Crown Princess of Greece, Marie-Chantal is an author, a childrenswear clothing designer and an all-round style icon. To give you an idea of her sartorial agenda, she once told Vanity Fair that her go-to outfit was a pair of Frame jeans with a cashmere sweater from Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen’s quiet luxury brand, The Row. She pairs with flat shoes from Tabitha Simmons and a Hermès Kelly Pochette. Cool-girl status? Check.

Therefore it's no surprise that her eponymous childrenswear line, Marie-Chantal, follows a similar style code that allows children become the chicest little ones on the planet. We're also crediting her as the reason her daughter and former Hello! Fashion cover girl, Princess Olympia of Greece, is one of the most fashionable royals in the game.

MORE: Princess Olympia of Greece on fashion, family ties and her super serum

RELATED: Princess Olympia's most stylish outfits of all time

One monarch creating a gift for another is unsurprising, particularly as King Charles III’s coronation is such a momentous occasion. It may be surprising however, that this commemoration of the British royal's special day comes in the form of a children’s capsule collection for kids aged 0-18 months.

“We are thrilled to announce our exclusive Coronation Capsule. A delightful collection of three Coronation inspired pieces to commemorate the upcoming coronation of His Majesty King Charles III, taking place on 6th May 2023,” the brand said on its website.

MORE: 9 luxury childrenswear brands to spoil your little ones with

READ: £3.5 billion worth of jewels will be used at King Charles III's coronation

An organic cotton bodysuit, an organic cotton sleepsuit and an adorable book name Little People Big Dreams - King Charles make up the collection.

Both pieces of clothing are clean white with an illustration of the gold state coach and the date of the coronation written in serif underneath.

Considering the innate minimalist, wholly chic style code of the Crown Princess, it’s no surprise her coronation pieces have the exact same agenda, but in adorably tiny sizes.

Like this story? Sign up to our Hello! Fashion newsletter to get your weekly 'Fashion Fix' delivered straight to your inbox.

HELLO!'s selection is editorial and independently chosen – we only feature items our editors love and approve of. HELLO! may collect a share of sales