Zvezda correspondent Konstantin Isaev received a strange package, and strangers sent busts of Marshal Zhukov to several military experts.

A man phoned our reporter a few days ago and, in a characteristic accent, mentioned a “hello and figurines.” Then a text message came from another number.

“Hello. Today the courier brought you the parcel. It is a gift from Sanka Belozerov for the day of volunteers. Please accept,” the stranger said on the phone.

In addition, the package was sent to the old address, where our correspondent has not lived for several years.

And today Isaev again received a call, but from another person. He said that an investigation into the fact of a suspicious shipment was underway and that he should appear to explain himself. It is unclear if they were actually law enforcement officers.

As the Baza Telegram channel found out, a certain Sanek Belozerov ordered busts via social networks from a workshop in Ulyanovsk. He asked to make five plaster busts at once with Marshal Zhukov and sent the addresses to which they should be sent. After that, he transferred 9,850 rubles from Kirill Nebogatov’s card for work with delivery.

According to SHOT, Belozerov insisted that the busts be delivered on Easter, but marked “gifts for Volunteers’ Day” (it is celebrated on December 5). Now they are trying to find Sanka Belozerov.

More details about the strange action became known from the words of military expert Konstantin Sivkov – the day before he also received a package. He immediately went to the police, where it turned out that there was a bust of Marshal Zhukov. According to him, similar packages were sent to four other journalists and experts.

Sivkov did not name names, saying only that it affected the famous philosopher, military correspondent and another photojournalist. According to him, it is a question of preparing a series of terrorist attacks against experts and journalists covering the NVO.

Recall that military commander Vladlen Tatarsky died on April 2 during a creative evening, which took place in a cafe on the Universitetskaya embankment in St. Petersburg. Then there was an explosion, as a result of which more than 40 people were injured. According to investigators, the figurine that Daria Trepova (Darya Trepova) brought to the event exploded. The girl is currently in custody.

Read the Russia Ukraine News on The Eastern Herald.