SHOPPING – Contains affiliated content. Products featured in this Mail Best article are selected by our shopping writers. If you make a purchase using links on this page,

Stuck-on grime, grease and germs are no match for a steam mop. With over 6,000 perfect ratings, the Russell Hobbs Steam and Clean Steam Mop 'leaves floors sparkling' clean, and it costs under £40.

The steam mop, which is considerably cheaper than other expensive steam cleaners from Shark and Bissell, takes the hassle out of cleaning tiles, sealed hard floors, carpets and rugs.

Users describe the Russell Hobbs RHSM1001-G Steam & Clean Steam Mop as 'absolutely brilliant' for 'sparkling clean floors', with reviewers saying it 'takes the stress out of cleaning the floor'.

With high praise for its efficiency and reasonable price tag, it's no surprise it's Amazon's number one bestseller in the retailer's competitive Steam Mops category.

'Wow, amazing cleaner,' raved one five-star reviewer. 'I first used it on carpet where there were dirty marks by the door which a carpet cleaner had not removed.

'All dirty marks gone! I then used it on my kitchen floor, and is was so quick and easy to clean.'

'Bought as a cheap replacement as my more expensive one went bang,' a second shopper wrote. 'Really surprised as this works much better and so much lighter than my old one.'

A third agreed, writing: 'My first ever steam cleaner, amazing cleaning, floors look like new and soooo easy to set up and use. Best thing I've bought this year.'

Quicker and easier to use than a traditional mop, with no bucket of water to contend with, the Russell Hobbs Steam & Clean Steam Mop is also a great option for pet owners dealing with dirty paws.

The lightweight steam mop makes light work of muddy paw prints and spills, with a super quick 15-second heat-up time.

Plus, it kills up to 99.9 per cent of all known household germs and bacteria without the need for chemicals.

The Russell Hobbs Steam and Clean Steam Mop features a swivel head for manoeuvring in tight spaces, an extra-long five-metre cable, so you're not limited to a small clean up job, and specially designed microfibre pads that can be cleaned in the washing machine.

Spring clean your floors and shop the number one bestselling Russell Hobbs RHSM1001-G Steam and Clean Steam Mop online at amazon.co.uk.