It looks like it’s “bring your son to work day” in the executive branch as President Joe Biden and his latchkey son Hunter traveled to Belfast, Ireland, on official business on behalf of the United States of America.

So far, Hunter has served multiple positions, including umbrella holder and interpreter for his 80-year-old dad.

“Hunter Biden was POTUS’s umbrella carrier at the airport in Dublin as the president chatted in a cold rain with the taoiseach and diplomatic officials,” Bloomberg News reporter Jennifer Jacobs tweeted.

Hunter Biden was POTUS’s umbrella carrier at the airport in Dublin as the president chatted in a cold rain with the taoiseach and diplomatic officials. pic.twitter.com/9WACsCvdvI

Then, Hunter clarified what one young Irish lad had to say. While the child’s original question wasn’t clear on camera, the president could be heard responding, “Making sure we don’t all have COVID.”

Hunter Biden steps in when Joe Biden doesn't understand the question he's being askedpic.twitter.com/rvJNXPwARo

The president’s son then came over and explained the question was about success, to which a jubilant Joe yelled, “Oh, what’s the key to success!”

“You know what I found the key to success is? I’m not sure I’m the best guy to explain it,” he added in a rare moment of self-awareness.

CLICK HERE TO GET THE DAILY WIRE APP

Nonetheless, he attempted to answer the question.

“The key to success is, when you disagree with somebody, it’s okay to question their judgment, but it’s never okay to question their motive,” Biden said in part.

The clip ends there, and it’s anybody’s guess as to where Biden was hoping to end up in that response.

Hunter Biden steps in when Joe Biden doesn't understand the question he's being askedpic.twitter.com/rvJNXPwARo

The president should have asked his son Hunter what the key to success is. Hunter is an energy executive, a Chinese business savant, the smartest guy his dad knows, and “one of the most consequential artists of the 21st century,” according to his art dealer.

As to why Hunter is on the trip, nobody exactly knows. Perhaps it was simply to get a free vacation out of it.

The president said he is there to “make sure the Irish accords and the Windsor agreement stay in place,” in reference to the Good Friday Agreement between Northern Ireland and the United Kingdom, ending years of violence.

“Keep the peace,” Biden added. “That’s the main thing, and it looks like we’re gonna.”

While the peace might be kept in Ireland, the troubles at home could be just beginning for the Biden clan. House Republicans are ramping up investigations into alleged impropriety and corruption conducted by Hunter and other Biden family members while piggybacking off the president’s political connections.

The views expressed in this piece are the author’s own and do not necessarily represent those of The Daily Wire.

Related: News Is Bleak From The Emerald Isle This St. Paddy’s Day