Alberta, Saskatchewan and Manitoba have signed an agreement to collaborate on joint economic corridor projects to boost trade and economic growth.

Taking the lead on new nation-building projects

Alberta, Saskatchewan and Manitoba have signed an agreement to collaborate on joint economic corridor projects to boost trade and economic growth.

Keeping Alberta Affordable: Eligible seniors and families with children under 18 can apply for $600 affordability payments. Learn more and apply now

Alberta, Saskatchewan and Manitoba have signed an agreement to collaborate on joint economic corridor projects to boost trade and economic growth.

Taking the lead on new nation-building projects

Alberta, Saskatchewan and Manitoba have signed an agreement to collaborate on joint economic corridor projects to boost trade and economic growth.

Keeping Alberta Affordable: Eligible seniors and families with children under 18 can apply for $600 affordability payments. Learn more and apply now

Some parts of this page will not display.

JavaScript is not available in this browser or may be turned off.

The signing of a memorandum of understanding between the governments of Alberta, Saskatchewan and Manitoba will foster the development of new economic corridors across the three provinces. This groundbreaking partnership aims to bolster economic growth and collaboration while strengthening the region's position as a key player in the global market.

“Alberta is proud to partner with Saskatchewan and Manitoba, taking a leadership role in building new trade corridors that will help our provinces and our country. New nation-building projects need government cooperation and political will. We need to cut red tape. We need to get building things like we used to. We need to make good jobs and an affordable life a priority. We can start to show people that, yes, Canada is a place you can do business again.”

“The world needs what Saskatchewan has to offer. We rely on dependable, robust road, rail, air and port networks to ship our food, fuel and fertilizer across North America and around the globe.”

“Manitoba’s unique gateway and hub initiatives cannot develop in isolation, that is why external cooperative partnerships will leverage our initiatives for success. With similar trade and transport access such as distance to markets, reliance on international ports and railway services, and similar commodity basis, Saskatchewan and Alberta are natural key partners to work with on improving trade enablement through transportation.”

In its earliest days, Canada was united by nation-building economic projects such as the transcontinental railway, which tied the country together through improved travel and trade.

Over the last decade, regulatory uncertainty, anti-development policies and a lack of national leadership have cost provinces an opportunity to pursue projects that would have created thousands of jobs and billions of dollars in growth and investment.

The three provincial governments will work together to eliminate regulatory inefficiency and uncertainty to attract and develop nation-building projects. Alberta, Saskatchewan and Manitoba will coordinate to identify and prioritize strategic infrastructure that will enhance trade and transportation between the provinces and around the world. Through this, new economic corridors will be built to support the movement of critical resources, energy and utility projects, and secure national supply chains.

* The agreement will focus on enhancing critical infrastructure, improving the efficiency of interprovincial transportation networks and reducing regulatory hurdles. It will also identify opportunities to attract private sector investment and partner with Indigenous communities on economic corridor development.

* Economic corridors link markets in and out of Alberta, supporting the province’s economic, social and environmental activity.

* Economic corridors can involve a broad range of infrastructure, including transportation, energy, power, telecommunications and other utilities.

In addition to physical infrastructure, corridors include service markets and the coordination of regulations and policies across multiple jurisdictions and sectors.

* In addition to physical infrastructure, corridors include service markets and the coordination of regulations and policies across multiple jurisdictions and sectors.

* According to Statistics Canada, Alberta exported more than $138 billion in goods in 2021.

This includes goods shipped by pipeline and other modes, such as road, rail, air and marine.

Non-pipeline exports of goods totalled more than $48 billion.

* This includes goods shipped by pipeline and other modes, such as road, rail, air and marine.

* Non-pipeline exports of goods totalled more than $48 billion.

* Alberta Transportation and Economic Corridors will work and proactively partner with Indigenous communities to plan economic corridors for mutual economic benefit.