Key markets in the Middle East are showing a spike in hotel occupancy on the books during Eid al-Fitr, according to STR’s Forward STAR data.

“While typically slower during Ramadan, leisure travel within the Middle East is set to resume during Eid,” said Kostas Nikolaidis, STR’s account executive, Middle East & Africa. “Many countries offer paid holidays for three to five days post-Ramadan, which is where we typically see spikes in occupancy. This year, however, Qatar announced an 11-day holiday, further extending the length of travel time available to celebrate the end of the Holy Month.”

When looking at the Eid travel period (as of 10 April), Abu Dhabi and Dubai show occupancy on the books peaking on Saturday, 22 April at levels of 59.7% and 60.3%, respectively.

In Qatar, however, occupancy on the books reaches its highest point on Sunday, 23 April (at 42.3%).

“Qatar naturally operates at a lower occupancy when compared to Abu Dhabi and Dubai,” said Nikolaidis. “The extended Eid holiday period in the market this year may lead to lower occupancy peaks as demand could spread across more days. Overall, we are anticipating Eid to signal a return to the strong performance seen across the region lately, with Qatar projected to reach the 70% mark, and Abu Dhabi and Dubai expected to achieve occupancy above 80% during the holiday period.”

Last year during Eid, Qatar and Dubai’s occupancy spiked on 4 May at 78.2% and 88.8%, respectively, while Abu Dhabi saw its highest occupancy level on 3 May (at 85.4%).

STR provides premium data benchmarking, analytics and marketplace insights for global hospitality sectors. Founded in 1985, STR maintains a presence in 15 countries with a North American headquarters in Hendersonville, Tennessee, an international headquarters in London, and an Asia Pacific headquarters in Singapore. STR was acquired in October 2019 by CoStar Group, Inc. (NASDAQ: CSGP), a leading provider of online real estate marketplaces, information and analytics in the commercial and residential property markets. For more information, please visit str.com and costargroup.com.