Only a high pitch count prevented the Chicago White Sox starter from possibly going the distance in the second game of Tuesday’s doubleheader against the Philadelphia Phillies.

Giolito left after the sixth inning without allowing a hit, but he threw 102 pitches.

After Kendall Graveman retired the side in order in the seventh, the Phillies broke up the combined no-hit bid when Brandon Marsh led off the eighth with a double to left against Aaron Bummer.

The Sox had to settle for a one-hitter in a 3-0 victory in front of 12,542 at Guaranteed Rate Field.

“I knew I wouldn’t get through nine; I lobbied for the seventh,” Giolito said. “I understand going out in April already at 102 pitches is kind of a tough spot.

“If it was 102 pitches after seven or eight, then maybe we have more leeway, but understandably hand it off to the bullpen and let them shut it down for three innings, which is what they did.”

The Sox earned a split of the doubleheader after dropping the opener 7-4.

“That was a great ballgame after a tough loss,” manager Pedro Grifol said. “Gio was electric. He had great mound presence.”

Giolito was brilliant, finishing with seven strikeouts, one walk and one hit batter.

“It was all working,” catcher Seby Zavala said.

Giolito received defensive help in the fifth when left fielder Romy Gonzalez made a leaping catch to rob Alec Bohm.

Giolito hit Garrett Stubbs to begin the sixth. The Sox got a forceout when shortstop Elvis Andrus fielded a grounder by Cristian Pache and threw to second in time. Bryson Stott then grounded into a 3-6-3 double play.

Graveman entered in the seventh. Center fielder Luis Robert Jr. made a nice running catch to retire Trea Turner for the first out, and first baseman Andrew Vaughn snagged Kyle Schwarber’s hard-hit grounder for the second out. Graveman struck out Nick Castellanos to end the inning.

Marsh ended the chance for history, knocking Bummer’s second pitch the other way for a double.

Jake Burger provided the Sox offense with a three-run homer in the first.

The Phillies struck for three runs in the first in Game 1 on the way to dropping the Sox to fourth place in the American League Central.

Former Sox infielder Josh Harrison had three hits, including a two-run homer, and four RBIs.

The Sox had six consecutive hits in the third and scored four runs to get within 5-4. But they had only two more hits the rest of the game.

“We’ve got to continue to shrink the strike zone and rack up those pitches on the other side as well,” Grifol said after Game 1. “Overall, we did OK but not good enough to overcome that five-run deficit.”

Sox starter Lance Lynn found a rhythm after a bumpy beginning to keep the game close. He allowed five runs on 10 hits with seven strikeouts and three walks in 5⅓ innings.

“He’s been battling,” Grifol said. “It seems like every ball he leaves out over the plate, they’re hitting. He’s not trying to get in trouble early, it just happens that balls were finding some holes early. It’s just not going our way right now. It’s not going his way.

“He settles down and he gives us the innings he needs to give us. That’s a credit to him and what he does. He kept us in that ballgame. He saved our bullpen.”

Grifol pointed out that all 10 hits Lynn allowed were singles.

“That’s part of the game,” Lynn said. “Last couple starts have been a bunch of home runs. So you’re damned if you do, damned if you don’t right now. That’s just where I’m at.

“Right now, I’m not in a good rhythm, I’m not throwing the ball well and I’m not having productive outings. I’ve got to be better.”

Harrison’s two-out, two-run homer off reliever Jimmy Lambert in the seventh provided a cushion for the Phillies.

“It’s April, but you’ve got to get it moving just to make sure you don’t get too far behind,” Lynn said.

The Sox bounced back in the nightcap behind Giolito, who was nearly involved in his second no-hitter. He no-hit the Pittsburgh Pirates on Aug. 25, 2020, at Guaranteed Rate Field.

“I’m really excited where he’s at right now,” Grifol said.