Hey there, gamers! Are you ready to take down some vampires in Redfall? Well, the good news is that you can pre-order one of the editions of the game right now! In this article, we’ll show you exactly how to do it and what you can expect from each version. So, don’t waste any time, and let’s sink our teeth into this pre-order guide!

If you’re eagerly anticipating the release of Redfall, you’ll be happy to know that you can already pre-order the game. Physical editions of the game are available for pre-order on Amazon, GameStop, and Best Buy. Meanwhile, Steam and Xbox offer a digital copy of the game.

By pre-ordering the game, players can unlock a handful of cosmetics, including the Level 2 Unrivaled Grim Tide Shotgun, Polar Vortex Multi-Weapon Skin, and Blood Ravager Stake weapon attachment. Additionally, those who opt for the Bite Back edition will receive even more cosmetics and curios to show off on their shelves. So, if you’re ready to join the fight against the vampires of Redfall, make sure to pre-order your copy today!

Redfall has two editions available for purchase: the standard edition and the Bite Back edition. The standard edition is priced at $69.99 and is available in physical format from Amazon, GameStop, and Best Buy, or digitally through Steam and Xbox. The Bite Back edition, priced at $99.99, is only available in digital format through Steam and Xbox.

The physical version of the game can upgrade to the Bite Back edition for $29.99, which includes all extras except for the game. Nvidia is also bundling the Bite Back edition of Redfall with its 40-series graphics cards and select gaming laptops.

Here’s a comparison table for the two Redfall editions:

Regardless of which edition you choose, pre-ordering Redfall will give you access to the Vampire Hunter Pack, which includes Level 2 Unrivaled Grim Tide Shotgun, Polar Vortex Multi-Weapon Skin, and Blood Ravager Stake weapon attachment.

Great news for Game Pass Ultimate subscribers – you will have access to Redfall the day it is released! While you won’t receive any of the in-game extras that come with pre-ordering the game, it’s still an excellent perk to have. For those who aren’t subscribers yet, you can currently snag a three-month membership for a discounted price of $41.66 on Amazon. Alternatively, you can opt for the standard Game Pass subscription for Xbox or PC, which runs at $9.99 a month each. However, keep in mind that the standard subscription doesn’t include game streaming and won’t allow you to play games online without Game Pass Ultimate on Xbox.

Redfall is now available for pre-order on various platforms such as Amazon, GameStop, Best Buy, Steam, and Xbox. There are two editions of the game available, the standard edition and the Bite Back Edition. The Bite Back Edition includes additional bonus items and costs $99.99 for the digital version and $29.99 for the physical upgrade. The game will also be available on Game Pass Ultimate, although subscribers won’t have access to the pre-order bonus cosmetics. With the release date just around the corner, make sure to pre-order your preferred edition of Redfall now to join the fight against the vampire threat.