Yabello, Borena, with frequent travels to the areas of operation (Dhas and Dubluk).

While performing the duties of this job in the field, he/she may be exposed to precarious settings under high-security risks and/or very basic living conditions and outside weather conditions, as well as to infectious diseases.

6 months, with no possibility of extension

Degree in Project Management, International Development/Humanitarian sector and/or Economic development, or other relevant sectors, obtained by at least 6 years;

Minimum 3 years’ experience in development/humanitarian projects funded by institutional donors in the sector of emergency livelihood and cash assistance.

Proven experience in managing Cash Assistance projects in humanitarian contexts and proven knowledge of the functioning of transfer of money through Financial Service Providers.

Fair understanding of budget issues in humanitarian projects (i.e. administrative and financial planning).

High proficiency in Oromo, Amharic, and English – written and spoken.

Prior experience in implementing humanitarian projects addressed to Refugees, IDPs and Returnees.

Prior experience in the implementation of projects funded by AICS (Italian Cooperation).

Experience in the administration of digital data collection and analysis tools (including platform administration, questionnaire creation, field data collection, data analysis), through KoBo Toolbox or similar platforms.

CESVI is a secular and independent humanitarian organization, founded in Bergamo, Italy in 1985. CESVI works in 23 countries across Africa, Asia, Latin America and Europe, supporting the most vulnerable populations in the promotion of human rights, in the achievement of their aspirations, for sustainable development and in response to the most severe emergencies.

CESVI is registered in Ethiopia since 2018 and has been working in refugee camps in Tigray and with pastoralists communities in Oromia. In 2022, CESVI started operations in Amhara (COVID-19 prevention measures and income-generating activities for people with disabilities in conflict-affected areas), Harar and Dire Dawa (promoting socio-economic integration of people on the move and potential migrants, with a focus on people with disabilities, along the Eastern Ethiopian migration route) and Beninshangul-Gumuz (in the Bambasi refugee camp). In May 2023, CESVI will start the project “Humanitarian / Development / Peace Nexus nelle comunità agropastorali sfollate e residenti nel Borena - Oromia (HUDEPE Borena)” - AID 12470, funded by the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation.

Ensure the proper monitoring of the indicators of the Specific Objective and Cash assistance-related results, including through the development of monitoring tools;

Define and implement the strategy and implementation modalities of the project’s cash assistance activities for all project locations, also through the development of specific Standard Operating Procedures;

Ensure the application of the local Cash Working Group guidelines and standards in the project activities;

Regularly participate in Cash Working Group meetings and other sectoral coordination fora;

Coordinate and implement the selection of the Cash for Work beneficiaries, in collaboration with the local authorities;

In coordination with the local authorities, identifies the works to be covered by Cash for Work and Buffer Grant activities in all project locations and defines their details;

Select the Financial Service Provider for the transfer of money to the beneficiaries and supervise the services provided;

Supervise the Post Distribution Monitoring and analyses its results;

Furthermore, the Cash Assistance Expert will:

Ensure the proper application of Donor and CESVI’s procedures;

Develop and maintain track records of projects’ outputs, supervise the activities, prepare reports to the Donor and CESVI HQ in Addis Ababa;

Ensure the proper administrative-financial management of the activities, ensuring that expenditures are in line with the financial plan;

Guarantee the respect of CESVI Safeguarding procedures and standards, in collaboration with the CFM and Safeguarding Expert;

S/He will work in close coordination with CISP and with the local authorities.

S/He will also provide inputs for the development of project proposals to expand CESVI’s presence in the area.

The main duty station will be Yabello with frequent travel to the field (Dhas and Dubluk). Travels will represent at least the 50% of the monthly activities.

New activities and tasks that may be necessary or useful for the proper and timely implementation of the project tasks may be defined jointly by CESVI and the “Cash Expert”.

The collaboration will start in May 2023.

CESVI has a zero-tolerance approach to any harm to, or exploitation of, a child or a vulnerable adult by any of our staff, related persons or partners.

CESVI commitment to being a safe organization begins with the staff recruitment process which includes meticulous checks, such as criminal records checks or check disclosure of previous convictions, to ensure children and vulnerable people are safeguarded and abuse is prevented. Safeguarding checks are part of the selection process performance.

For further information regarding CESVI policies: https://www.cesvi.eu/who-we-are/transparency/our-policies/