Prime Avis Investment Services Limited also known as “PrimePay,” a digital lending company, has announced that it has successfully disbursed 1,000 loans in less than six months of operations this is coming on the heels of the company’s recent approval from the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC), which will further help boost its operations.

Speaking at a press parley, the Chief Technology Officer, Mr. Oreoluwa Faseru, expressed his gratitude to the company’s customers for their support and patronage, which has enabled the company to achieve this remarkable feat.

He said, “We are grateful to our customers for their trust and loyalty, which has helped us to reach this milestone. At PrimePay, we are committed to being a worthy financial partner to our customers by providing them with innovative financial solutions that meet their needs.”

Faseru added, “PrimePay has revolutionised the lending industry in Nigeria by leveraging several familiar channels to disburse loans, including USSD, WhatsApp, Instagram, and Facebook. This makes PrimePay the first of its kind in Nigeria to offer lending services through some of these channels, making it easier for customers to access loans conveniently. Customers can apply for loans by simply dialing *258*6# on their mobile phones, chatting with PrimePay’s Bot on WhatsApp number 08185460000, direct messaging to @prime.pay on Instagram, and @primepay on Facebook and simply saying “Hello.”

Additionally, Faseru said that “PrimePay’s digital lending platform is designed to provide quick and convenient access to credit for individuals and businesses. The platform offers flexible loan repayment terms, competitive interest rates, and a user-friendly interface that makes it easy for customers to apply for loans and manage their accounts. We offer other financially relieving products that take care of emergency needs and wants of our customers across board. It is a quick fix as long as you are fit for the loan which is aimed to save our customers from emergency needs that can cause embarrassment.

“With the recent approval from the FCCPC, PrimePay is poised to expand its operations and reach more customers across Nigeria. The company is committed to leveraging technology to provide financial solutions that are accessible, affordable, and convenient. We are not restricted by space or border; we go over and above to delight our customers and prospects making their experience a delectable one.”

Faseru appreciated PrimePay’s esteemed customers for their continued support and encouraged them to take advantage of the company’s digital lending platform to meet their financial needs.

He submitted, “We are committed to providing our customers with the best possible service, and we look forward to serving them better in the future. We are continuously developing products that will not only meet their emergency needs but also secure their dreams of fulfilling some salient ambitions financially. We aim to be a one-stop shop for your financial needs/support.

For more information on PrimePay and its services, please visit our website at www.primepay.africa