A thriving Eden equestrian business is on the market for £1.1 million.

Ivy House Stables, in 10 acres of land near Penrith, is being sold by H&H Land & Estates.

It includes a three-bedroom home, 10 acres of well-wooded paddocks, and an extensive range of equestrian facilities.

Current owner, Emma Greenland, is selling Ivy House Stables with great reluctance to focus on the development of her equine stud business.

She said: “Since we bought Ivy House in 2011, we’ve grown the business successfully to offer full livery accommodation for 10 horses, and we have increasingly been entrusted with horses for rehabilitation from racing trainers, eventers, showjumpers and owners with problem horses.

“Ivy House Stables has established a reputation as the only rehabilitation centre of its kind in the North West England and South West Scotland.

“At the same time, we have developed a very successful AI stud business here, and last year we cared for 47 mares whose owners were looking to breed from some of the world’s leading stallions.

“I am relocating to focus purely on this aspect of the business, and although I’m sad to leave Ivy House Stables, I am very happy to pass on a wonderful opportunity for a new owner to develop its full potential.”

It has a steel barn of around 1,600sq m, providing secure internal stabling for up to 25 horses, and an external isolation stable.

A separate covered section houses an electric exercise ring, exercise pool, and a selection of loose boxes and tack rooms, and to the side is a further covered yard area with adjacent workshop and vehicle store. The land is well drained pasture, providing high quality grazing for horses, and each enclosure is bound by timber post and net fencing.

Kate Patrick, head of estate agency for H&H Land & Estates, believes Ivy House Stables offers an almost unique combination of benefits to potential buyers.

She said: “This is an ideal property to make a rural lifestyle and business dream a reality. There is a huge demand for land with income-earning possibilities, and particularly with equestrian business potential. Ivy House Stables has the perfect combination of land, location, facilities and a thriving business with an outstanding reputation for the buyer to build on.”