KUALA LUMPUR, April 11 — Who knew biryani could fuel some of the best workouts ever?

Fluffy, long grain basmati rice. A layer of spicy marinated mutton, more rice, then the delicate and precious saffron that gives the dish a subtle yet unmistakable depth. It’s more than a flavour, they say; hard to describe yet you’d know it if it’s missing.

Hours of cooking to create a perfect balance of meat, spices and rice. Indeed, the ideal blend of protein and carbohydrates for my gym bro and me.

We are at The Lion of Punjab in Taman Desa and we have discovered a new — and tastier — way to refuel after intense training.

If you are baffled, not everyone subsists on a diet of boiled chicken breasts and steamed broccoli after their gym sessions.

If anything, our visit — and subsequent patronage — is a reminder how sometimes we have to think outside the box in all areas of life, particularly the not so usual suspects.

Sure, a café that serves smashed avocado on sourdough toast sounds “healthier” but I’m not certain the dish satisfies in the same way as a freshly made flatbread, be it a paratha or a naan, crispy and flaky in more sublime and sensual ways.

A fancy vegan diner offering a wide array of raw foods might ease one’s guilty conscience after a weekend binge (although, why are we paying more when they don’t even have to cook the ingredients?) but I rather fall for the charms of spinach blanched and puréed beyond recognition in my favourite palak paneer.

The charms of The Lion of Punjab extends beyond its Popeye-approved palak paneer, however. The restaurant itself has a regal ambience.

We remark how the kitschy print of two crowned lions would be endorsed by any gym bro seeking to enter #BeastMode.

We begin with some appetisers to ease us in, and dairy-rich beverages to prepare our bellies for focused feasting to come.

Who can resist the crispy pakoras — the “original” version is made from spinach, onions, potatoes, cauliflower and gram flour, whilst the paneer pakoras are cottage cheese fritters with a spiced tomato filling.

To wash it all down, a masala chai, the smooth blend of black tea and hot milk perfumed by herbs and spices, and a creamy mango lassi thick with yoghurt.

Upon return visits, we try the other biryanis — chicken, prawn and paneer (if you haven’t noticed it already, I love my cottage cheese which is a great source of protein).

All the meat and non-meat proteins are well-marinated with spices; the flavours further boosted by the presence of caramelised onions.

Some gravy and raita (a yoghurt-based dip) on the side help lubricate the proceedings. A surprise hard-boiled egg hidden within the layers of rice feels like uncovering a treasure... and yet another boost of protein!

Other rice dishes at The Lion of Punjab include their jeera rice (basmati rice flavoured with whole cumin seeds) and vegetable pulao (basmati rice cooked with carrots, cauliflower, green beans and peas), which makes the restaurant a haven for carb lovers too.

There is no end to protein choices too, from the mutton keema, where the moreish, well-spiced mince is served with raw onions, tomatoes and a secret blend of red and green sauces, to the masala fried fish, the rare piscine dish at The Lion of Punjab where the fish isn’t boneless (and perhaps more flavourful for that).

We envision the mutton building our quadriceps, the fish filling out our latissimus dorsi. And if our thighs and back don’t get any more muscular, we certainly aren’t gonna blame the chef or our overactive imagination.

Some fantasy may season the dishes and make them taste even better, no? And they taste very good to begin with.

But sometimes it’s the classics that work the best. You can’t go wrong with tandoori chicken — the meat succulent from a marinade of yoghurt and spices, the surface lightly blistered by the heat of the tandoor (clay oven).

Also, as my gym bro reminds me, it’s more protein. So let’s dig in for the gains!

* Follow us on Instagram @eatdrinkmm for more food gems.