Former Conservative Party chief executive Sir Mick Davis has been confirmed as the main speaker at the next pro-Israel democracy demonstration in London.

The ex-chair of the Jewish Leadership Council has previously made no secret of his support for the protests that have taken place inside Israel and across the globe in opposition to the Israeli government’s planned judicial overhaul.

But his appearance at the April 30th protest in the capital, on the same day as Yom Ha’atzmaut will be the first time he has spoken publicly at one of the protests.

Get The Jewish News Daily Edition by email and never miss our top stories

Free Sign Up

Davis will be joined as a speaker by ex-Reform Judaism senior Rabbi Laura Janner-Klausner and Joel Rosen, the current president of the Union of Jewish Students at the demo, whose location has yet to be announced.

Previous protests in London have seen thousands attend, including many Israelis currently living in the UK.

Organisers of the demo have seized on announcements by Moody’s, who have downgraded Israel’s outlook credit rating, as evidence of the damage Benjamin Netanyahu’s planned reforms are having on the country.

Moody’s noted in their statement that “mass protests have led the government to pause legislation and seek dialogue with the opposition.”

Last month Sir Mick had issued a statement in support of the pro-democracy protests here, and in Israel.

There have been attempts by some of the political right to claim the marches are dominated by “leftists.”

But in his statement at the time Sir Mick said:“This is a crisis for Jews and friends of Israel everywhere. Israelis are speaking out and standing up to protect the Jewish, democratic soul of Israel.

“We stand with Israel in the face of external threats and now we must stand with Israel in the face of equally concerning threats from within. It is right that Israelis in London are protesting, and it is right that British Jews, our friends and allies should protest with them.’’