Billy Vunipola’s season is over after he sustained a knee injury in Saracens’ Champions Cup defeat at La Rochelle on Sunday. Vunipola will miss the Premiership leaders’ last three games of the regular season and home semi-final, as well as the Twickenham final if they reach that stage.

It is also a blow to his hopes of mounting an England comeback in time for this autumn’s World Cup and he will not be given a time-frame for his recovery until surgery has been completed on Thursday.

Vunipola suffered the injury while carrying the ball in the first half of the quarter-final at Stade Marcel-Deflandre and had to be carried from the pitch on a stretcher. A scan has revealed the extent of the damage, leaving Saracens without their most destructive ball-carrier.

Vunipola’s form, combined with the failure of Alex Dombrandt to convince in the No 8 jersey, raised the prospect of an England comeback with the World Cup fast approaching. The former Wales and British and Irish Lions captain Sam Warburton recently said Vunipola should be reinstated to the back row for the tournament on the basis of the ball-carrying power he provides.

But the 30-year-old, who is rumoured to not be on speaking terms with the England head coach, Steve Borthwick, has been denied any further opportunities to press his claim on the pitch, even if does recover in time for September.

Meanwhile, Jack Willis has signed a three-year deal with Toulouse to place his England future in doubt. Willis has made his short-term move to the Top 14 permanent having proved a success at the French giants, whom he joined after Wasps entered administration in October.

“It’s official – our English back row is staying at the Stadium and is signing up for three new seasons (including two as an option). He is thus part of the club’s 2027 trajectory,” Toulouse statement said.

RFU regulations dictate players based abroad are not eligible for selection, but a special case was made for players forced to move by the collapse of Wasps and Worcester, until and including the World Cup, after which those based abroad will again become ineligible as things stand.

By extending his time at Toulouse rather than returning to the Premiership, the 26-year-old will test the determination of the RFU and Premiership Rugby to stand by the rule.

Last month, Willis said he was hopeful a solution could be found that would allow him to continue his England career. “There are lots of avenues to explore,” he said. “The positive thing for me is that it seems that hopefully that’s on the table and at least being discussed. Steve’s been fantastic with me throughout this Six Nations on many levels – his support and his work with Toulouse. Toulouse have been brilliant as well and showed how smooth that process can be.”

While Willis explores ways to extend his England career, one player for whom international rugby is definitely in the past is the wing Chris Ashton, who has announced he will retire at the end of the season. Ashton’s 18-year career began in rugby league and is set to finish at Leicester,who he joined midway through last season.

The 36-year-old is one of the great finishers in the English game and will retire as the record try-scorer in the Premiership (98) and Heineken Champions Cup (41).

“I’ve just felt, this season, that my body is not able to do what I want it do any more,” Ashton said. “I’m still enjoying the game, enjoying being in and around the team and the game every day, but if I’m not able to keep the standards that I expect of myself, then it’s the right time for me to retire.”