Like many families, Andrew and Belinda Ferguson refinanced their mortgage on their dream four-bedroom home when interest rates plummeted during the pandemic.

But the married couple from Brisbane had no idea that almost two years on they would have been charged almost $20,000 after their bank made a major interest rate mistake.

Or that they would be locked in a months-long 'nightmare' battle with their lender to have the error rectified - with the bank initially blaming everyone else before offering the family less than $400 as a 'gesture of goodwill'.

The parents, who have two young children, currently have a home loan worth just over $700,000 with St George Bank.

Mr Ferguson said that in June 2021 they decided to split their loan and fix $500,000 worth of their mortgage at a rate of 1.88 per cent for three years.

Their mortgage broker received an email from St George Bank confirming that the requested change had been made.

'With all the banks dropping their interest rates to record lows it was a good time to review our current situation and I think a lot of people did it at the same time,' he told news.com.au.

'I think you would be mad to call the bank and say put me on variable – a lot of people were looking to fix their interest rates.'

But the couple were shocked to discover 18 months later that the new interest rate had never been applied.

Instead, they were hammered with rising interest rates as the Reserve Bank of Australia pushed through 10 consecutive hikes in as many months, taking the cash rate up to 3.6 per cent.

The couple were being charged 6.27 per cent on the $500,000 portion of their home loan instead of 1.88 per cent.

This means they were paying an extra $700 each month than if they had been on the much lower rate.

Mr Ferguson assumed the mistake would be easily solved but St George, which is owned by Westpac, had other ideas.

The lender blamed the family's broker for allegedly not filling out the correct form - even though they had received an email confirming the change.

When Mr Ferguson complained to the bank in February, the bank rejected his claim to have the lower interest rate applied in just the space of two days.

'After I spoke to the broker and he provided all the written formal evidence, I thought this should be pretty straight forward resolution because the bank has it in writing but then they started becoming awkward and putting us in a game of spin cycle with the customer complaints process,' he said.

'It's so frustrating and it has wasted so much time when it is black and white and should be an easy fix. The more it goes on, the more it is starting to drive me around the bend – it makes you look at the bank's history and look at all the fines that Westpac have had to pay out over the years.

'I think they copped one of the biggest fines in history not long ago for charging people who were deceased and you look at the amount of profit they make and how much of that profit is taken from gouging their customers each year?

'I think I am not going to allow them to stand there and brag about their record profits and be one of the people they gouge every year.'

The couple lodged a complaint with the ombudsman the Australian Financial Complaints Authority (AFCA).

Incredibly, St George then blamed the family for not spotting the mistake earlier.

Mr Ferguson said they had a lot on at the time and it was hard to work out the loan split.

'In my defence … it's the same problem if you noticed it on the first day or the last day, what's the difference?', he said.

In response to the AFCA complaint St George said they would offer a refund of their annual fee of $395 as a 'gesture of goodwill'.

Mr Ferguson rejected the paltry offer, calculating that he would lose almost $40,000 over the three-year fixed period.

'That's just ridiculous I mean they are getting to the point that if they were a country they are like Russia as they have no morals,' he said.

But St George bank has since performed a total 'backflip' and said they would honour the ultra low interest rate originally requested two years ago.

They have also refunded the family $17,376 in overpaid interest and offered $2000 to the couple 'for any frustrations this matter has caused'.

Mr Ferguson said he had reluctantly accepted the $2000 but added the bank only changed its mind once media outlets held it 'accountable'.

'The whole strategy applied by the customer care team at St George was to shift the blame onto me and my mortgage broker,' he said.

'It was as clear as crystal where the error was made on the first day I presented the evidence.

A Westpac spokesperson said they were unable to comment on individual customer matters due to confidentiality reasons.

'When a customer raises a concern about their home loan, if an error has been made, we ensure the customer is not left out of pocket. We apologise for the inconvenience caused,' the bank said..

Daily Mail Australia reached out to Westpac for further comment.