Skip to main content

Our Services

How we help

Who we are

What we've done

Insights

Careers

As a leading digital marketing agency that specialises in creating innovative and effective digital solutions, Digital Glue has a team of highly skilled and experienced professionals. The agency has established itself as a trusted partner for companies looking to improve their online presence and drive growth through digital channels. But at the heart of everything it does, are the people who drive the business and its clients’ successes. In this blog, you’ll gain an insight into what it’s like to work at Digital Glue from the perspective of a student that joined the team during a work experience placement.

I completed a week of work experience at Digital Glue because I’ve always been interested in marketing and consumer behaviour. Business has always been my favourite topic in A-levels, so I wanted to obtain real-world experience to further my abilities in this area.

Everyone at Digital Glue was very personable and kind, and the office atmosphere was enjoyable and social. Liv was the mentor I had. She helped with every element of her work experience and was incredibly kind. She also created a work schedule for me that detailed what I needed to accomplish each day for a week. This, I believe, made it easier for me to plan my week’s activities. The assignments comprised a variety of digital marketing-related activities, such as producing blogs, press releases, launch plans, and magazines. This, in my opinion, offered me a realistic impression of what it would be like to work for a marketing firm.

I picked up useful abilities like drafting press releases, which I had no idea existed until I came here. It was helpful to learn about it. At the Lunch & Learn training session hosted by Digital Glue, I additionally learned how to pitch journalists. Learning how to draft a pitch email to pique journalists’ interest in the subject and the significance of crafting a strong press release were both intriguing lessons to learn.

The Difference between Sixth Form and Work Experience

The experience of working at Digital Glue was entirely different from Sixth Form. For instance, in Sixth Form, you don’t really turn your knowledge into practical skills and you don’t really gain much independence. But with the help of my digital abilities, I was able to put my knowledge to use and was granted the freedom to work independently. But, my mentor Liv would provide me with feedback following each work, which was incredibly helpful as I gained a lot of knowledge from her comments.

How My Work Experience at Digital Glue Will Enhance Future Skills

My work experience at Digital Glue will also be beneficial in the future. I now have a better understanding of what it’s like to work in an office setting, and I hope to work in marketing in the future. I am appreciative to Digital Glue for providing me with this opportunity and aiding in my skill development since I believe that this job experience will help me differentiate myself on my resume from other candidates.

Want to work with Digital Glue? See what opportunities we have.

Receive monthly marketing tips, how-to guides and updates on the latest trends.

We take your privacy seriously. By providing your contact details you consent to us contacting you to discuss your requirements as detailed within your enquiry. You can read our full privacy policy on our policies page. Digital Glue will never share your personal details with third parties unless required by law.*This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.

Where is your next breakthrough coming from?

We take your privacy seriously. By providing your contact details you consent to us contacting you to discuss your requirements as detailed within your enquiry. You can read our full privacy policy on our policies page. Digital Glue will never share your personal details with third parties unless required by law. This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.

We take your privacy seriously. By providing your contact details you consent to us contacting you to discuss your requirements as detailed within your enquiry. You can read our full privacy policy on our policies page. Digital Glue will never share your personal details with third parties unless required by law.*This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.