Who should be BFFs and who should stay clear of each other? We consult the astrology charts for the women of The Real Housewives Ultimate Girls Trip Season 3.

Who should be BFFs and who should stay clear of each other? We consult the astrology charts for the women of The Real Housewives Ultimate Girls Trip Season 3.

Sometimes it’s just fate when Housewives become best friends or worst enemies, especially if you believe in astrology.

Astrology is a concept based on the 12 familiar star signs of the zodiac— and each sign has myths, colors, and even animals associated with it. Many people believe zodiac signs can say a lot about personality and compatibility.

Will Gizelle Bryant, Candiace Dillard-Bassett, Leah McSweeney, Porsha Williams, Marysol Patton, Alexia Nepola, Heather Gay, and Whitney Rose have the trip of a lifetime in Season 3 of The Real Housewives Ultimate Girls Trip (streaming now on Peacock)—or is this Scary Island Part 2? Here’s what the zodiac says about the Housewives.

The Real Housewives of New York City’s Leah and The Real Housewives of Potomac’s Gizelle may not seem to have a lot in common, but they are both Virgos. They’re “logical, practical and systematic in their approach to life,” according to Allure.

The Real Housewives of Atlanta’s Porsha and The Real Housewives of Salt Lake City’s Heather are another pair who don’t immediately seem connected, but they both are Cancers. They’re “highly intuitive” according to Allure, but also “willing to do whatever it takes to protect [themselves] emotionally.”

Picking up on Heather’s fierce loyalty (one of many reasons she’s at odds with Whitney on this trip), Cosmopolitan says, “no other sign is as loving, loyal and protective as you. Having you as a friend is like having your own personal lifelong therapist who knows all your secrets.”

The Real Housewives of Potomac’s Candiace is a Sagittarius—a fire sign (makes sense!). She’s described as “knowing no bounds” and “always on a quest for knowledge” according to Allure.

Marysol, from The Real Housewives of Miami, is an earth sign: a Capricorn. Cosmo describes Capricons as determined and says they “lift others up because they want the best for everyone” and add they “give great advice” and are “ready to do whatever to help a pal out.”

Alexia from The Real Housewives of Miami is also an earth sign like her friend Marysol. As a Taurus, she’s described as “more likely to take a six-hour bath, followed by a luxurious Swedish massage and decadent dessert spread,” Allure says. Cosmo added a Taurus “needs people who appreciate the finer things in life and are willing to spend on them.”

The Real Housewives of Salt Lake City’s Whitney is a Libra, with “balance, harmony and justice” as her energy, according to Allure. Cosmo points out a Libra “doesn’t mind being bossed around a bit, because [her] natural tendency to overthink things means [she] sometimes struggles to make a decision.”

As Virgos, astrologists say Leah and Gizelle should have several friends on this vacation, including their fellow earth sign members, Marysol and Alexia. Virgos get along with Capricorns and Tauruses because they “all love the material world and don’t put up with any nonsense.”

Cosmo says Leah and Gizelle need to be in charge in their friendships and adds they “can be a bit of a know-it-all, but hey, it’s (usually) justified.” The outlet also points out Leah and Gizelle as Virgos can “be kinda judgey” to their friends.

Marysol is positioned to get along with nearly everyone on this trip. As a Capricorn, she’s best paired with fellow earth signs, according to Cosmo (in this case, Virgos Leah and Gizelle, and Taurus Alexia) because they’re “all practical and resilient.” In these friendships, “there’s no drama, just enjoying life together.”

Cancer signs Heather and Porsha should also be besties with Capricorn Marysol, according to Cosmo, which says they should be “drawn to Capricorn’s strong, stoic aura—it’s an opposites attract kinda thing.” (The two signs are opposites on the zodiac).

Alexia, besides Leah, Gizelle, and Marysol, would also be likely get along with Whitney, a Libra. Cosmo describes them as “two divas in a pod, because [they’re] both ruled by Venus, the planet of love and luxury.”

Unfortunately, Candiace (a Sagittarius) doesn’t have any astrological BFFs in the group in Thailand.

It’s not a surprise to anyone watching The Real Housewives Ultimate Girls Trip Season 3 that Candiace, a Sagittarius, and Porsha, a Cancer, are a terrible astrological match.

“While these two signs have a zest for life, how they express emotions couldn’t be more different,” according to Yahoo. “Cancers are ruled by their feelings, while Sagittarius are ruled by their actions. As a result, miscommunication is the number one issue for these two signs.”

RELATED: Candiace Dillard Bassett Teases What’s to Come with Porsha Williams on RHUGT Season 3

Alexia, a Taurus, and Candiace, a Sagittarius, also have extremely low compatibility, according to Yahoo.

“Taurus don’t like to step outside of their comfort zones, and Sagittarius don’t enjoy being stuck in a routine or place for very long,” the outlet said. “Sagittarius also tends to be too impulsive and blunt for a more measured and practical sign like Taurus. In short, they just can’t meet in the middle.”

Marysol, a Capricorn, and Whitney, a Libra, also aren’t likely to be friends.

“Libra is more open-minded and prefers to hear everyone’s perspective, whereas Capricorns prefer to stick to the facts,” according to Yahoo. “This can cause friction between the two when they disagree on how to handle a problem. Overall, a Libra and Capricorn friendship leaves a lot to be desired.”

Who will end up good friends and who will be enemies by the end of the vacation? Watch Season 3 of The Real Housewives Ultimate Girls Trip now on Peacock, with new episodes dropping on Thursdays.