You may be trying to access this site from a secured browser on the server. Please enable scripts and reload this page.

You may be trying to access this site from a secured browser on the server. Please enable scripts and reload this page.

Patterns of patient outcomes following specialist pain management in Australasia: a  using the electronic Persistent Pain Outcomes Collaboration database

aAustralian Health Services Research Institute, Faculty of Business and Law, University of Wollongong, Wollongong, Australia

bThe Daffodil Centre, Faculty of Medicine and Health, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia

Sponsorships or competing interests that may be relevant to content are disclosed at the end of this article.

Supplemental digital content is available for this article. Direct URL citations appear in the printed text and are provided in the HTML and PDF versions of this article on the journal's Web site (www.painjournalonline.com).

The increasing demand for pain management and limited resources available highlight the need to measure treatment effectiveness. We analysed data collected at 75 specialist persistent pain services located in Australia and New Zealand to calculate the overall treatment outcome for patients receiving care during 2014 to 2020. Sociodemographic and clinical information was provided for 23,915 patients, along with patient-reported measures assessing pain, pain interference, depression, anxiety, stress, pain catastrophizing, and pain self-efficacy. Latent class analysis identified 4 distinct outcomes based on patients' pattern of responses across the assessment tools at treatment end. Group 1 (n = 8369, 35%) reported low/mild severity across all clinical domains at the end of care, while group 4 (n= 7081, 30%) were more likely to report moderate/high severity on all domains. Group 2 (n = 1991, 8%) reported low/mild pain with moderate/high psychological distress at treatment end, and group 3 (n = 6474, 27%) reported moderate/high pain with low/mild psychological distress. Multivariable logistic regression identified those factors associated with the different groups. In particular, factors most predictive of a poor (group 4) vs good outcome (group 1) were unemployment (due to pain or other reasons), requiring an interpreter, widespread pain, pain of longer duration, and attributing the pain to an injury at work. The results may allow identification of those most likely to benefit from the services currently provided and inform development of alternative or enhanced services for those at risk of a poor outcome.

Patient-reported treatment outcomes across 75 specialist persistent pain services show that approximately one-third of patients report a very positive overall outcome while a further third report little benefit.

© 2022 International Association for the Study of Pain

You can read the full text of this article if you:

Patterns of patient outcomes following specialist pain management in Australasia: a latent class analysis using the electronic Persistent Pain Outcomes Collaboration database

Thought you might appreciate this item(s) I saw in PAIN.

Your message has been successfully sent to your colleague.

Some error has occurred while processing your request. Please try after some time.

Export All Images to PowerPoint File

Thought you might appreciate this item(s) I saw in PAIN.

Your message has been successfully sent to your colleague.

Some error has occurred while processing your request. Please try after some time.

Search for Similar Articles

You may search for similar articles that contain these same keywords or you may                 modify the keyword list to augment your search.

Data is temporarily unavailable. Please try again soon.