From classic pillar-box to deep berry, a red lip never goes out of style. What's more, it's the ultimate shortcut to glamming up your look. Whether you want to go all-out bold or prefer a subtle hit of colour, there's a shade of red for all ages and skin tones.

You need to find the red for you. So gather a selection of tones, apply them to your fingertips and hold them up to your lips in natural light to see what suits your colouring.

Pare down the look of your eyes, leave your base natural and let your red lip do the talking. Start slowly, gradually building up the colour until you reach a level you're comfortable with.

Rather than apply the bullet directly to your lips use your ring finger. After defining the edge of the lip with a pencil, press the colour on to the lip for a long-lasting, even coverage.

Long gone is the draped blush of the 80s. This fresh version is much more refined – it's the way to feign higher cheekbones without taking a contour stick and going crazy. The daytime glow starts at the outer corners of your eye before being brought down on to the cheeks. Result? Even when you're not smiling the blush is higher on your face.

When that little voice in your head says you're done, listen to it! This works best when subtle and blended – there's no reason to overdo it.

Start slow and build up – because this is probably an unfamiliar blush placement, relax and ease into it.

Don't add blush to the apples of your cheeks. Aim instead for the outer corner of your eye and slowly blend it down, along the cheekbone.

A party eye is fun to play with, but just how wearable is it? Very, is the answer. With a magic cocktail of textures you can ensure no slip and slide – just pure party power. Feel free to play with whatever shade makes your eyes pop – but it's safe to say that purple is the colour of the moment.

Start with a vibrant cream eyeshadow, then press a darker powder eyeshadow on top – it will stick to it and set (even with shimmer and glitter), meaning less fallout on your cheeks.

If you're not ready to give this look a go, there are other ways to introduce colour. Try a little coloured liner on the outer corner of your bottom lash line. Another trick is to press some bright eyeshadow on top of your usual black kohl liner for just a hint of tint.

Forget thinking that there's an age limit on colour, shimmer or glitter. The joy of make-up doesn't disappear after a particular birthday, so have fun – just layer your formulas correctly.