SANTA ROSA, Calif. — Sonoma County Vintners Foundation (SCVF) is pleased to announce this year’s Sonoma County Wine Auction (SCWA) honorees. James Hall and Anne Moses, founders of Patz & Hall, are the 2023 SCWA Honorary Chairs. Stuart Bryan and Pride Mountain Vineyards are this year’s SCWA Vintner Honorees. Duskie Estes, chef, farmer, rancher, co-owner of Black Pig Meat Co. and Executive Director of Farm to Pantry, is the SCWA Chef Honoree. The SCWA pre-auction events are planned for Thursday, September 14 through Friday, September 15. The auction will be held Saturday, September 16, at the stunning La Crema Estate at Saralee’s Vineyard. Event proceeds will benefit Sonoma County nonprofits.

“We are thrilled to recognize members of our community each year who give so much to local causes and are willing to help us raise crucial funding for area nonprofits,” said Michael Haney, Sonoma County Vintners Executive Director. “Their participation in this year’s SCWA events will enable our Sonoma County Vintners Foundation to continue awarding the Community Grants for education & literacy, health & human services, the environment, arts & culture, and emergency response that so many of our local organizations rely upon each year.”

2023 SCWA Honorary Chairs

James Hall and Anne Moses founded Patz & Hall with Donald & Heather Patz and turned it into one of California’s most highly regarded wineries with a celebrated portfolio of single-vineyard wines. The winery is celebrating its 35th anniversary this year. Founder and Head Winemaker James Hall has crafted every vintage of Patz & Hall since 1988, instilling the wines with his own boldness, imagination and trademark perfectionism. James’ legacy is also about the lasting relationships he has built with renowned growers from the finest vineyards throughout California such as Charlie Chenoweth, Lee and George Martinelli, Larry and Chris Hyde, Gary and Mark Pisoni and so many other great growers.

Founder Anne Moses has brought a unique perspective to the winemaking and the sales and marketing of Patz & Hall wines. As a gifted enologist, who spent over a quarter century helping to craft Patz & Hall’s acclaimed portfolio of Chardonnays and Pinot Noirs, and as the winery’s president from 1988 until 2005, Anne helped shape Patz & Hall’s success. Most recently, Anne worked with Ste. Michelle Wine Estates as their Director of Luxury representing their international luxury wine portfolio. She has graciously shared her industry expertise serving on several wine industry boards and currently serves on the Sonoma County Vintners board of directors.

2023 SCWA Vintner Honorees

Stuart Bryan and Pride Mountain Vineyards have been long-time supporters of the Sonoma County Wine Auction. Pride Mountain Vineyards was founded in 1990 by Jim and Carolyn Pride and since 2004 has been owned by their children Suzanne Pride Bryan and Steve Pride. Pride Mountain wines have been served at the White House 33 times since their wines were first poured at the 50th Anniversary of NATO dinner in 1999, across five administrations. Robert Parker, Jr. included Pride Mountain Vineyards as one of 22 California wineries in his book The World’s Greatest Wine Estates. The winery has produced over 30 vintages from their estate grown fruit at 2,100 feet of elevation at their vineyard site atop the Mayacamas Mountains.

After 30 years in national wine sales, including over two decades at Pride Mountain Vineyards, Stuart Bryan transitioned from his position as Director of National Sales in July 2014 to the role of Vintner Ambassador. In this position, Stuart travels extensively with his wife and winery co-owner, Suzanne Pride Bryan, to further the winery’s philanthropic efforts at the nation’s finest and most prestigious charity wine events, while bringing awareness of Pride wines to new fans. “I’m really enjoying being able to get out into the wine-loving community, not only to represent the winery, but also to be able to make a difference in people’s lives through the fundraising done at these great events,” said Stuart Bryan. He also generously has served for two terms on the Sonoma County Vintners board of directors.

2023 SCWA Chef Honoree

Duskie Estes and her husband, John Stewart, were chef proprietors of ZAZU Kitchen+Farm for nearly two decades, garnering numerous awards during that time. The restaurant was included in the San Francisco Michelin Guide for over a decade and rated as a Top 50 restaurant in the Bay Area by San Francisco Magazine. They now operate Black Pig Meat Co. and their food truck, The Black Piglet, which is a welcome sight at Sonoma County events and parties. Duskie is the Executive Director of Farm to Pantry, a gleaning non-profit in Sonoma County, rescuing produce from over 300 farms and backyards with 500+ volunteers and sharing with families fighting food injustice through 100+ community partners.

Funds raised at SCWA allow SCVF to support more nonprofits than any other fundraising event in Sonoma County. SCVF made grants to over 101 nonprofit organizations in 2022, assisting thousands of those in need.

“TLC Child & Family Services is deeply grateful for the generosity of the Sonoma County Vintners Foundation,” said Susan Fette, CEO of TLC Child & Family Services. “With the money raised at their Sonoma County Wine Auction, TLC’s youth ages 16-24 years old will receive support to cover basic needs such as rent, car maintenance, gas, and food. We’ve all found ourselves in a situation where we needed a little assistance during those formative years. Thanks to the SCVF grant, TLC’s youth have this help from our community and our partners.”

To learn more about the Sonoma County Wine Auction and organizations supported through fundraising efforts, please visit sonomacountywineauction.com. Ticket and event details for the three-day auction event, September 14-16, 2023, will be announced soon. To learn more about SCVF Community Grants, the Emergency Relief Fund, or recent beneficiaries, visit  sonomawine.com/scvf-grant-recipients.