We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or

tap here to see other videos from our team.   The agreement is to return to council on May 2, but before then, city staff are to consult with members of the Friends of Queen Street Kingston about their concerns about the proposed 16-storey building.  The developer, Podium Development Management Corp., is to be invited to join the conversation.  The deferral was meant to give residents of the area more time to express their concerns about the project, including its height and the resulting shadowing on the adjacent neighbourhood, density, parking and outdoor amenities.  “It was good to air these issues in public because I think that hasn’t happened in a really fulsome way since the public meeting of a year ago,” Bill Woods, a member of the Friends of Queen Street Kingston, said.

“I’m concerned that two weeks doesn’t give a lot of time for meaningful consultation. I’m concerned that what I heard was several individuals indicate the same thing, (and) the exact same thing is going to come back in two weeks. If there haven’t been changes as a result of the consultation, is the consultation genuine, are parties meeting in good faith?”  Council heard that the next meeting about the issue at the Ontario Land Tribunal is scheduled for May 12 and that the developer has already executed the terms of the settlement with the expectation that the city would sign on to the deal.  Vicki Schmolka of Building Kingston’s Future said the importance of the May 12 meeting, a case management conference, was exaggerated by city staff.

“The case management conference on the 12th is nothing,” she said. “You just go to the case management conference and say, ‘We’re discussing, we’re negotiating.’ (The tribunal) wants you to negotiate, they want you to come with a mediated settlement. So that was just sort of a false deadline.”  The city councillor for the area, King’s Town District Coun. Gregory Ridge, said he was happy with the deferral.  “My constituents have made their concerns very clear with regards to not feeling heard during this process, and so this deferral allows them that opportunity to be heard in a formal process with city staff,” Ridge said. “It will give the constituents and the community group the Friends of Queen Street the opportunity to be heard by city staff and to have a more in-depth discussion about this development before the recommendation comes back to council in two weeks.”

Representatives of Podium declined to comment after Tuesday night’s meeting.  Lanie Hurdle, the city’s chief administrative officer, said the results of the community consultation likely would not change the existing agreement.  “I think from a staff perspective, and especially from a professional planner perspective, staff have put forward their planning recommendations, and I believe that staff are supportive of the minutes of settlement that are in front of council. I would not anticipate that that would change,” Hurdle said.  The idea of delaying a decision, even for two weeks, did not sit well with the three councillors who voted against a deferral.  “I appreciate the intent of what’s happening here, but just so everyone is clear, if this motion defers, it’s just going to bring exactly the same thing back in two weeks. We’re going to be back in exactly the same position. We need to deal with the minutes of settlement that are before us.”

This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.