Collingwood captain Darcy Moore has been praised for his leadership after he joined hundreds at a healing ceremony at Victoria Park, marking 30 years since Nicky Winmar’s stance against racism.

Moore was alongside Collingwood president Jeff Browne, former indigenous greats and teammates and family members of football legend Winmar on Tuesday night for a traditional healing ceremony.

On April 17 1993, a day when Magpie supporters in the terraces’ hurled racist abuse at Winmar and indigenous teammate Gilbert McAdam, Winmar famously lifted up his guernsey, pointed to his skin and said “I’m black and I’m proud to be black.”

Watch every match of every round of the 2023 Toyota AFL Premiership Season LIVE on Kayo Sports. New to Kayo? Start your free trial now >

The moment was captured by photographer Wayne Ludbey and became an iconic image in the fight against racism by Aboriginal sportspeople - and was even immortalised with a bronze statue at Optus Stadium in Perth.

To mark 30 years since the day, a public healing ceremony called Ngarra Jarra Noun took place on Tuesday night at the Magpies’ spiritual home. It followed Collingwood’s official apology to both Winmar and McAdam on Sunday, and players from the two clubs running out through a joint banner at Gather Round.

Both Winmar and McAdam addressed the crowd while more than 30 people stepped forward to express their appreciation to Winmar for the bravery he showed 30 years ago.

The ceremony featured performances by Kutcha Edwards, and traditional dance groups Djirri Djirri, Murrundaya Yepenga Dance Troupes, The Fighting Gunditjmara, Koori Youth Will Shake Spear and Wulumbarra, while Winmar and Indigenous performer Richard Walley joined in a spirit dance.

“I just want to say thank you so much,” Winmar said to the crowd, with a lump in his throat.

“My grandkids are here tonight. So good to see you, you mean the world to me. You are the best generation.

“It’s time for a stop. Enough is enough. I’m black and proud.”

Former Collingwood premiership player Heritier Lumumba and former Gold Coast player Joel Wilkinson were both present and spoke during the ceremony.

Browne and captain Moore were invited to address the crowd, with the new skipper drawing more praise for his leadership.

“I just want to say I’m honoured to be here,” the Pies skipper said after a warm embrace with Winmar.

“This man has an extraordinary legacy and he’s had a powerful impact on so many of us here.

“Seeing the young ones here today just really inspires me to keep working towards a shared future where we can all walk together in strength and solidarity

“It’s an honour to be here.”