Plasma Protease C1 Inhibitor Market size to grow by USD 1.7 billion from 2021 to 2026, Driven by the increasing R&D - Technavio

,  /PRNewswire/ -- The plasma protease C1 inhibitor market size is forecasted to increase by USD 1.7 billion from 2021 to 2026, at a CAGR of 7.4%, according to the recent market study by Technavio. The growth of the market will be driven by increasing research and development, increasing product approvals/launches, and the adoption of inorganic strategies. Technavio offers an up-to-date analysis of the current global market scenario and the overall market environment. View a Sample Report.

The competitive landscape of the global plasma protease c1 inhibitor market is highly fragmented, with many key players. The majority of key players are concentrating on customized production by using advanced technology and adopting new strategic initiatives such as long-term agreements and mergers to generate more revenue during the forecast period. Technavio has extensively analyzed 15 major vendors, including AbbVie Inc., Alexion Pharmaceuticals Inc., argenx SE, Bausch Health Companies Inc., BIOCRYST PHARMACEUTICALS Inc., bluebird bio Inc., Bristol Myers Squibb Co., CSL Ltd., FibroGen Inc., Fresenius Kabi AG, Gilead Sciences Inc., GlaxoSmithKline Plc, iBio Inc., Ionis Pharmaceuticals Inc., KalVista Pharmaceuticals Inc., Novartis AG, Pharming Group NV, Sanquin, Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., and Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc.

Get a holistic overview of the plasma protease c1 inhibitor market by industry experts to evaluate and develop growth strategies. Download the Sample

BIOCRYST PHARMACEUTICALS Inc. - The company offers plasma protease c1 inhibitors, whose function is the inhibition of the complement system to prevent spontaneous activation, under the brand name .

CSL Ltd. - The company offers plasma protease c1 inhibitors, whose main function is the inhibition of the complement system to prevent spontaneous activation but also as the major regulator of the contact system, under the brand name Berinert.

Fresenius Kabi AG - The company offers plasma protease c1 inhibitors under the brand name Fresenius Kabi.

Charts & data tables about market and segment sizes for the forecast period (2022-2026) have been covered in this report. Download the Sample Report

The report offers information on the criticality of vendor inputs, including R&D, CAPEX, and technology.

It also provides detailed analyses of the market's competitive landscape and vendors' product offerings.

The report also provides a qualitative and quantitative analysis of vendors to help clients understand the wider business environment as well as the strengths and weaknesses of key market players. Data is qualitatively analyzed to categorize vendors as pure play, category-focused, industry-focused, and diversified; it is quantitatively analyzed to categorize vendors as dominant, leading, strong, tentative, and weak.

Expand operations in the future - To get requisite details, ask for a custom reportThis report extensively covers plasma protease C1 inhibitor market segmentations by product (lyophilized and injectable) and geography (North America, Europe, Asia, and Rest of World (ROW)).

The market share growth by the lyophilized segment will be significant for the market growth during the forecast period. Due to the growing use of intravenous medication administration for the treatment of hereditary angioedema (HAE), the segment held the largest market share during the base year. Moreover, the growing demand for intravenous C1 esterase inhibitor medications in Asian and Latin American markets, which are expanding, is expected to benefit the lyophilized segment. The growing demand for the segment can be attributed to factors such as the rising demand for intravenous administration of drugs, fewer adverse effects, cost-effectiveness, and increased preference by physicians. Hence, such factors are expected to positively impact the market in focus in this segment during the forecast period.

One of the key drivers fueling the growth of the market is the increasing research and development.

Owing to factors such as the biopharmaceutical firms' increased attention to developing effective plasma protease C1 inhibitor treatment drugs/therapy for various health disorders, such as HAE, diabetic macular edema (DME), and others, the global plasma protease C1 inhibitor market is predicted to rise during the forecast period.

There are a number of kallikrein inhibitor medicines that are now in the preclinical and clinical stages of development. For instance, in , KalVista Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a clinical-stage pharmaceutical company focused on the discovery, development, and commercialization of small molecule protease inhibitors, announced the initiation of the KVD900 Phase 3 KONFIDENT.

Hence, such an increase in the R&D related to plasma protease C1 inhibitors is expected to drive the market in focus during the forecast period.

The increasing trend of bradykinin B2 receptor antagonists is one of the key plasma protease C1 inhibitor market trends.

Hereditary angioedema's acute episodes of swelling and inflammation are treated using an antagonist of the bradykinin B2 receptor.

For instance, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved Icatibant (Firazyr), a selective bradykinin B2 receptor antagonist, to treat acute bouts of HAE in adults.

Additionally, Pharvaris was awarded a  Series B financing in  to help advance the clinical development of innovative oral B2-receptor antagonists to treat HAE and other B2 receptor-mediated diseases.

Hence, such developments are expected to fuel market growth during the forecast period.

A major challenge hampering the growth of the market during the forecast period is the high cost and complex treatment.

Plasma-based medicines are linked to a growing risk of blood-borne diseases such as human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), hepatitis B, and hepatitis C transmission.

The risk of infection transmission during transfusion remains significant, despite the fact that primary blood screening is performed.

This is because of the occurrence of various pathogen strains, blood purification-resistant pathogens, and the threat of new viruses such as flaviviruses, which lead to the development of negative immunological reactions to blood-based products, resulting in treatment non-compliance.

Hence, such factors are anticipated to impede market growth of the plasma protease C1 inhibitors during the forecast period.

To get detailed insights about more drivers, trends, and challenges, buy the report What are the key data covered in this Plasma Protease C1 Inhibitor Market report?

CAGR of the market during the forecast period

Detailed information on factors that will drive the growth of the plasma protease C1 inhibitor market between 2022 and 2026

Precise estimation of the size of the plasma protease C1 inhibitor market and its contribution to the parent market

Accurate predictions about upcoming trends and changes in consumer behavior

Growth of the plasma protease C1 inhibitor market across , , , and Rest of World (ROW)

A thorough analysis of the market's competitive landscape and detailed information about vendors

Comprehensive analysis of factors that will challenge the growth of plasma protease C1 inhibitor market vendors

The plasma therapeutics market size is expected to increase by USD 8.98 billion from 2021 to 2026, and the market's growth momentum will accelerate at a CAGR of 6.1%. This report extensively covers plasma therapeutics market segmentation by product (immunoglobulin, albumin, blood factors, and others) and geography (North America, Europe, Asia, and Rest of World (ROW)). The high demand for albumin in China is notably driving the plasma therapeutics market growth. The beta lactam and beta lactamase inhibitors market size is expected to increase to USD 9.04 billion from 2021 to 2026, and the market's growth momentum will accelerate at a CAGR of 5.44%. The report extensively covers market segmentation by route of administration (oral, intravenous, and others) and geography (North America, Europe, Asia, and Rest of World (ROW)). The special regulatory designations are notably driving the beta lactam and beta lactamase inhibitors market growth.

AbbVie Inc., Alexion Pharmaceuticals Inc., argenx SE, Bausch Health Companies Inc., BIOCRYST PHARMACEUTICALS Inc., bluebird bio Inc., Bristol Myers Squibb Co., CSL Ltd., FibroGen Inc., Fresenius Kabi AG, Gilead Sciences Inc., GlaxoSmithKline Plc, iBio Inc., Ionis Pharmaceuticals Inc., KalVista Pharmaceuticals Inc., Novartis AG, Pharming Group NV, Sanquin, Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., and Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc.

Parent market analysis, Market growth inducers and obstacles, Fast-growing and slow-growing segment analysis, COVID-19 impact and recovery analysis and future consumer dynamics, and Market condition analysis for the forecast period.

If our report has not included the data that you are looking for, you can reach out to our analysts and get segments customized.

Exhibit 11: Offerings of vendors included in the market definition

Exhibit 18: Chart on Bargaining power of buyers – Impact of key factors 2021 and 2026

Exhibit 19: Bargaining power of suppliers – Impact of key factors in 2021 and 2026

Exhibit 20: Threat of new entrants – Impact of key factors in 2021 and 2026

Exhibit 21: Threat of substitutes – Impact of key factors in 2021 and 2026

Exhibit 22: Threat of rivalry – Impact of key factors in 2021 and 2026

Exhibit 23: Chart on Market condition - Five forces 2021 and 2026

Exhibit 54: Chart on Rest of World (ROW) - Market size and forecast 2021-2026 ($ million)

Exhibit 55: Data Table on Rest of World (ROW) - Market size and forecast 2021-2026 ($ million)

Exhibit 58: Chart on US - Market size and forecast 2021-2026 ($ million)

Exhibit 59: Data Table on US - Market size and forecast 2021-2026 ($ million)

Exhibit 79: Impact of drivers and challenges in 2021 and 2026

Exhibit 80: Overview on Criticality of inputs and Factors of differentiation

About Us

Technavio is a leading global technology research and advisory company. Their research and analysis focus on emerging market trends and provide actionable insights to help businesses identify market opportunities and develop effective strategies to optimize their market positions. With over 500 specialized analysts, Technavio's report library consists of more than 17,000 reports and counting, covering 800 technologies, spanning across 50 countries. Their client base consists of enterprises of all sizes, including more than 100 Fortune 500 companies. This growing client base relies on Technavio's comprehensive coverage, extensive research, and actionable market insights to identify opportunities in existing and potential markets and assess their competitive positions within changing market scenarios.

Also from this source

Contact lens market size in India to grow by USD 205.21 million between 2021 and 2026; Bausch Health Companies Inc., Carl Zeiss AG, among others, identified as key vendors - Technavio

Ewing's Sarcoma Treatment Market size to grow by USD 302.5 million from 2021 to 2026, Driven by the growing awareness about and funding for Ewing's sarcoma - Technavio