Royal Caribbean just released seventeen short segments of the cruise line’s Ultimate World Cruise, a 274-night cruise around the world. Visiting over sixty countries and eleven World Wonders, the World Cruise is on many cruisers’ bucket lists, and getting onboard has just become a whole lot easier.

Royal Caribbean first announced the Ultimate World Cruise on Serenade of the Seas in late 2021, and it opened for bookings in early 2022. Passengers could book either the entire 274-night cruise or one of four 2-3 month segments.

Not all cabins have been sold for the Ultimate World Cruise, which prompted Royal Caribbean to split the segments into seventeen individual itineraries ranging from nine to twenty nine nights.

These itineraries visit everywhere from Antarctica to Australia, Norway, and South Korea, and here’s everything you need to know about booking these unique itineraries.

Prices for each segment of the World Cruise vary significantly, with some itineraries as low as $931 per person and others around $1,881 per person. These prices reflect the per person rate before taxes and fees in an interior room.

The majority of itineraries are priced around $1,200 per person. With taxes and fees added, this brings the average cost to around $3,173 total for two guests in an interior room. With many itineraries between 11-16 nights, the price per day makes the segments a great value.

Only interior and ocean view rooms are available on the World Cruise segments. All balconies and suites are sold out, presumably by the guests who booked the entire sailing or one of the original four segments of the cruise.

Although Royal Caribbean just released itineraries for shorter segments of the World Cruise, the World Cruise has been available to book for over a year. Many staterooms are fully booked, and Royal Caribbean has not shared how many cabins are available on each segment.

If 70% of the ship is already full, for example, there could be only a handful of cabins available for any particular segment. Therefore, if you’re daydreaming about that cruise to India or Patagonia, you should book the segment before it sells out completely.

Interested in being onboard for the first day of Royal Caribbean’s Ultimate World Cruise? Join the excitement as Serenade of the Seas departs Miami for her tour around the world with this 26-night itinerary to the Caribbean and South America. On this sailing, you will visit thirteen ports before disembarking in Buenos Aires, Argentina:

The itinerary starts with an exciting day at Perfect Day at CocoCay and later includes an overnight stay in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, allowing guests to experience one of the world’s most famous New Year’s Eve celebrations.

Is visiting Antarctica on your to-do list? If so, booking the Ultimate South America & Antarctica cruise itinerary is the only way you can cruise to The White Continent with Royal Caribbean.

Departing Buenos Aires, Argentina and ending in Valparaíso, Chile, this once-in-a-lifetime itinerary takes passengers around the tip of South America, which includes two days of sightseeing in Antarctica. Although passengers cannot disembark the ship in Antarctica, sailing by the continent’s massive glaciers and abundance of wildlife will certainly make for an unforgettable cruise vacation.

Aside from Antarctica, the cruise visits several ports in Patagonia in addition to the Falkland Islands:

Interested in visiting Machu Picchu and the jungles of Central America? The Ultimate Central & South America cruise visits some seriously alluring ports on the 19-night itinerary. This segment of the World Cruise starts in Valparaíso, Chile and ends in Los Angeles, California, visiting nine destinations:

Lovers of sea days will enjoy the longest segment of the Ultimate World Cruise, a 29-night itinerary crossing the Pacific Ocean. The planet’s biggest ocean contains approximately 30,000 islands, and this transpacific itinerary takes passengers to several of the most beautiful destinations.

Departing Los Angeles and ending in Brisbane, Australia, this itinerary visits:

Visiting the remote islands of Hawaii and French Polynesia offers passengers the chance to discover the cultures and landscapes in these destinations. Whether snorkeling the reefs of Moorea or visiting Mauna Loa volcano in Hawaii, this transpacific itinerary is unlike any other segment of the World Cruise.

Head down under for a cruise from Australia’s northeast to Southeast Asia. This 16-night itinerary departs Brisbane, Queensland and brings guests to six tropical ports before ending in Hong Kong:

Guests on this itinerary can snorkel the Great Barrier Reef, explore the volcanic landscapes of Lombok, and end their trip with a stay in the busy metropolis of Hong Kong.

Starting in Hong Kong and ending in Beijing, the Ultimate China, Japan & South Korea itinerary takes passengers on a captivating voyage across East Asia, visiting several islands and cities in the region. Throughout the 12-night itinerary, passengers will visit:

Passengers can visit Japan more in-depth on the Ultimate Japan, Vietnam & Singapore itinerary. Starting in Beijing, this World Cruise segment visits several ports in Japan, continues to Southeast Asia, and ends in Singapore; it visits the following ports:

Visit the Taj Mahal on the Ultimate India, Sri Lanka & Malaysia cruise. This 15-night itinerary takes guests to discover the rich cultures of India, Malaysia, and Sri Lanka where they’re sure to find tasty cuisine, vibrant markets, and insights into the region’s history and religions.

Passengers embark this fascinating sailing in Singapore and disembark in Dubai, visiting the following destinations:

While docked overnight in Bombay (Mumbai), India, guests will have the opportunity to visit the Taj Mahal, one of the new Seven Wonders of the World.

Visit the Pyramids of Giza on an 18-night cruise through the Middle East. Starting in Dubai and ends in Athens, you will visit the following ports on this itinerary:

Whether you’re interested in learning more about ancient Egypt, visiting religious sites in Israel, or strolling the seafront of Limassol, you’re sure to find wonderful ways to spend your port days on this itinerary.

This Eastern European itinerary brings passengers to countries rarely visited on Royal Caribbean cruises for an insight into the region’s culture and history. Departing Athens and returning to Istanbul, guests will visit the following ports:

Visiting Ephesus is a dream for many history buffs, as this ancient archaeological site was once one of the most important cities in the Mediterranean. Beyond ancient ruins, however, you can enjoy the seaside towns of Burgas and Constanta, two destinations you may never have thought to visit.

Spending summer in the Mediterranean is a dream, especially when you’re hopping from island to island on a cruise ship. Starting in Istanbul and ending in Venice (Ravenna), this 13-night itinerary to Greece, Turkey, and Italy visits many of the region’s most picturesque islands and cities.

Cruising the Adriatic is a lovely option for those looking for a traditional European summer holiday. Charming cities, clear beaches, and breathtaking mountain views make ports along the Adriatic a must-see.

The Ultimate Italy, Croatia & Malta cruise starts in Venice (Ravenna) and ends in Rome (Civitavecchia). It visits nine unique ports:

As Serenade of the Seas makes her way out of the Adriatic, she will call upon the small country of Malta before heading to Sicily and the Amalfi Coast, adding another region of the Mediterranean to this 11-night itinerary.

The Ultimate Italy, France & Spain cruise is a classic Mediterranean cruise, visiting the region’s most famous cities. Starting in Rome (Civitavecchia) and ending in Barcelona, this Western European cruise itinerary will call upon:

Passengers on this itinerary can start their vacation by visiting the Colosseum and Vatican City in Rome. Once on the cruise, they can visit other famous landmarks including the Leaning Tower of Pisa in Florence and Sagrada Familia in Barcelona. The combination of a shorter itinerary with visits to the continent’s most popular destinations makes this a fantastic option for those visiting Europe for the first time.

Although mainland Spain and Morocco are separated by only the narrow Strait of Gibraltar, the two countries offer vastly different travel experiences. Whereas visiting Spain brings guests to beachfront cities like Barcelona and Valencia, Morocco offers bustling markets and stunning desert landscapes.

Passengers on the 16-night Ultimate Spain, Morocco & France cruise can experience the best of what Spain and Morocco have to offer while also traveling to northern Europe near the end of the cruise. The itinerary departs Barcelona and ends in Southampton and visits the following ports:

Depart Southampton and explore the historic cities of Northern Europe on this intriguing 15-night itinerary. Although you may not encounter the sunny, warm skies of the Mediterranean, visiting Northern Europe allows you to experience the region’s charming towns and friendly cultures.

On this two week cruise, you will visit the following ports:

One of the shorter itineraries on the Ultimate World Cruise is a 9-night Norwegian fjords cruise. This itinerary departs Copenhagen, ends in Amsterdam, and visits the following ports:

Cruising the Norwegian fjords is a dream vacation for many cruisers—not only can you visit the quaint towns along the fjords, but you’ll experience some of Europe’s most breathtaking scenery as you sail from port to port.

The final segment of Royal Caribbean’s Ultimate World Cruise is an Arctic itinerary combined with a transatlantic crossing to Miami, Florida. This 22-night itinerary starts in Amsterdam and visits the following ports:

While this itinerary includes more sea days than most, it offers the chance to visit more remote destinations like Iceland and Greenland. Plus, ending the cruise at Perfect Day at CocoCay is a great way to celebrate the final port of call on Serenade of the Seas’ journey around the world.