Claims that landlords are misusing section 21 notices – the ‘no fault’ eviction process – are unfounded, one firm says.

Estate agents Leaders Romans Group (LRG) says it has carried out research and found that Section 21 is rarely overused, and even more rarely misused.

The firm says that a controversial change being planned in the proposed Renters’ Reform Bill would see the abolition of Section 21.

This measure will, among other issues, help to ‘professionalise’ the private rented sector (PRS) – but critics say that the repeal of Section 21 is not possible without changes in the court system.

Allison Thompson, LRG’s national lettings managing director, said: “Leaders Romans Group, along with the majority of our landlords, is committed to raising standards.

“But while we are fully supportive of ‘professionalising’ the private rented sector, many of the proposed changes, including the repeal of section 21, would pose new challenges to landlords which could penalise both landlords and tenants.”

She added: “It is important to bear in mind that private landlords are vital to meeting increased demand in the rental sector and that unnecessary measures which would result in an exodus of landlords from the market would be detrimental to rental affordability.”

Allows landlords to evict tenants without having to give a reason

Currently, section 21 of the Housing Act 1988 allows landlords to evict tenants without having to give a reason and tenants’ representatives believe that this leaves them vulnerable to ‘no fault’.

That means renters are often, they say, too afraid to complain to their landlord.

However, a survey by LRG across its estate agency brands Gibbs Gillespie, Hose Rhodes Dickson, Leaders, Moginie James, Portico, Romans and Scott Fraser, found that 80% of landlords have never used Section 21.

Of those that had, 6% did so when the tenant was in breach of the lease and only 3% where the tenant was not in breach of the lease.

The government should re-think its proposals

Ms Thompson said: “We also believe that the government should re-think its proposals surrounding assured shorthold tenancies (ASTs).

“It has been suggested that tenants should be permitted to serve notice of two months’ at any point.

“This would create considerable uncertainty for landlords, which is unwelcome in an already challenging market.”

She adds: “There has been a request to amend this, so that two months’ notice is only permissible when the tenant had been in the property for at least four months.

“This compromise would provide some further security for landlords, while allowing flexibility for tenants.”

LRG’s research follows the publication of the Levelling Up, Housing and Communities (LUHC) Committee response to the government’s Reforming the Private Rented Sector policy document.

The All-Party Parliamentary Group welcomed the government’s proposed abolition of Section 21 but requested that exemptions be made.

The report also states that, ‘The pressures on the courts will be exacerbated by the repeal of Section 21, as landlords will seek to regain possession under Section 8, especially in the case of rent arrears and antisocial behaviour’.

The report also adds that the abolition of Section 21 is only feasible if a housing court is put in place – something that the government has already ruled out.

Ms Thompson said: “It is at least reassuring that the committee understands the importance of consulting with landlords prior to making this substantial change – specifically on how and whether the courts can process such claims at the necessary rate – before Section 21 is repealed.

“If it was to speak to our landlords, it would certainly find that the government’s response to no-fault evictions to be extreme, unnecessary and damaging to landlords and tenants alike.

“The government should reconsider this very onerous proposed change.”

Have your say by commenting below

In order to post comments you will need to Sign In or Sign Up for a FREE Membership

Council to buy 300 homes to deal with landlord repossessions

Am I too old to increase my wealth?

Complaining tenants are ‘twice as likely’ to be evicted – Shelter claims

One in 10 tenants is ‘hiding a pet’ from their landlord

Privacy Policy

BACKGROUND:

Property118 Ltd understands that your privacy is important to you and that you care about how your personal data is used and shared online. We respect and value the privacy of everyone who visits this website, www.property118.com (“Our Site”) and will only collect and use personal data in ways that are described here, and in a manner that is consistent with Our obligations and your rights under the law.

Please read this Privacy Policy carefully and ensure that you understand it. Your acceptance of Our Privacy Policy is deemed to occur upon your first use of Our Site. If you do not accept and agree with this Privacy Policy, you must stop using Our Site immediately.

In this Policy the following terms shall have the following meanings:

means an account required to access and/or use certain areas and features of Our Site;

means a small text file placed on your computer or device by Our Site when you visit certain parts of Our Site and/or when you use certain features of Our Site. Details of the Cookies used by Our Site are set out in section 13, below;

means the relevant parts of the Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC Directive) Regulations 2003;

means any and all data that relates to an identifiable person who can be directly or indirectly identified from that data. In this case, it means personal data that you give to Us via Our Site. This definition shall, where applicable, incorporate the definitions provided in the EU Regulation 2016/679 – the General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”); and

Means Property118 Ltd , a limited company registered in England under company number 10295964, whose registered address is 1st Floor, Woburn House, 84 St Benedicts Street, Norwich, NR2 4AB.

Information About Us

Our Site is owned and operated by Property118 Ltd, a limited company registered in England under company number 10295964, whose registered address is 1st Floor, Woburn House, 84 St Benedicts Street, Norwich, NR2 4AB.

Our Data Protection Officer is Neil Patterson, and can be contacted by email at npatterson@property118.com, by telephone on 01603 489118, or by post at 1st Floor, Woburn House, 84 St Benedicts Street, Norwich, NR2 4AB.

This Privacy Policy applies only to your use of Our Site. Our Site may contain links to other websites. Please note that We have no control over how your data is collected, stored, or used by other websites and We advise you to check the privacy policies of any such websites before providing any data to them.

Your Rights

As a data subject, you have the following rights under the GDPR, which this Policy and Our use of personal data have been designed to uphold:

The right to be informed about Our collection and use of personal data;

The right of access to the personal data We hold about you (see section 12);

The right to rectification if any personal data We hold about you is inaccurate or incomplete (please contact Us using the details in section 14);

The right to be forgotten – i.e. the right to ask Us to delete any personal data We hold about you (We only hold your personal data for a limited time, as explained in section 6 but if you would like Us to delete it sooner, please contact Us using the details in section 14);

The right to restrict (i.e. prevent) the processing of your personal data;

The right to data portability (obtaining a copy of your personal data to re-use with another service or organisation);

The right to object to Us using your personal data for particular purposes; and

If you have any cause for complaint about Our use of your personal data, please contact Us using the details provided in section 14 and We will do Our best to solve the problem for you. If We are unable to help, you also have the right to lodge a complaint with the UK’s supervisory authority, the Information Commissioner’s Office.

For further information about your rights, please contact the Information Commissioner’s Office or your local Citizens Advice Bureau.

Depending upon your use of Our Site, We may collect some or all of the following personal data (please also see section 13 on Our use of Cookies and similar technologies):

Contact information such as email addresses and telephone numbers;

Financial information such as income and tax status;

Property Portfolio details such as value and mortgage outstanding;

How Do We Use Your Data?

All personal data is processed and stored securely, for no longer than is necessary in light of the reason(s) for which it was first collected. We will comply with Our obligations and safeguard your rights under the GDPR at all times. For more details on security see section 7, below.

Our use of your personal data will always have a lawful basis, either because it is necessary for our performance of a contract with you, because you have consented to our use of your personal data (e.g. by subscribing to emails), or because it is in our legitimate interests. Specifically, we may use your data for the following purposes:

Providing and managing your access to Our Site;

Supplying our products and or services to you (please note that We require your personal data in order to enter into a contract with you);

Personalising and tailoring our products and or services for you;

Replying to emails from you;

Supplying you with emails that you have opted into (you may unsubscribe or opt-out at any time by the unsubscribe link at the bottom of all emails;

Analysing your use of our site and gathering feedback to enable us to continually improve our site and your user experience;

Provide information to our partner service and product suppliers at your request.

With your permission and/or where permitted by law, We may also use your data for marketing purposes which may include contacting you by email and or telephone with information, news and offers on our products and or We will not, however, send you any unsolicited marketing or spam and will take all reasonable steps to ensure that We fully protect your rights and comply with Our obligations under the GDPR and the Privacy and Electronic Communications (EC Directive) Regulations 2003.

You have the right to withdraw your consent to us using your personal data at any time, and to request that we delete it.

We do not keep your personal data for any longer than is necessary in light of the reason(s) for which it was first collected. Data will therefore be retained for the following periods (or its retention will be determined on the following bases):

Member profile information is collected with your consent and can be amended or deleted at any time by you;

Anti-Money Laundering information and tax consultancy records are to be kept as required by law for up to seven years.

How and Where Do We Store Your Data?

We only keep your personal data for as long as We need to in order to use it as described above in section 6, and/or for as long as We have your permission to keep it.

Some or all of your data may be stored outside of the European Economic Area (“the EEA”) (The EEA consists of all EU member states, plus Norway, Iceland, and Liechtenstein). You are deemed to accept and agree to this by using our site and submitting information to Us. If we do store data outside the EEA, we will take all reasonable steps to ensure that your data is treated as safely and securely as it would be within the UK and under the GDPR

Data security is very important to Us, and to protect your data We have taken suitable measures to safeguard and secure data collected through Our Site.

We may share your data with other partner companies in for the purpose of supplying products or services you have requested.

We may sometimes contract with third parties to supply products and services to you on Our behalf. Where any of your data is required for such a purpose, We will take all reasonable steps to ensure that your data will be handled safely, securely, and in accordance with your rights, Our obligations, and the obligations of the third party under the law.

We may compile statistics about the use of Our Site including data on traffic, usage patterns, user numbers, sales, and other information. All such data will be anonymised and will not include any personally identifying data, or any anonymised data that can be combined with other data and used to identify you. We may from time to time share such data with third parties such as prospective investors, affiliates, partners, and advertisers. Data will only be shared and used within the bounds of the law.

In certain circumstances, We may be legally required to share certain data held by Us, which may include your personal data, for example, where We are involved in legal proceedings, where We are complying with legal requirements, a court order, or a governmental authority.

What Happens If Our Business Changes Hands?

We may, from time to time, expand or reduce Our business and this may involve the sale and/or the transfer of control of all or part of Our business. Any personal data that you have provided will, where it is relevant to any part of Our business that is being transferred, be transferred along with that part and the new owner or newly controlling party will, under the terms of this Privacy Policy, be permitted to use that data only for the same purposes for which it was originally collected by Us.

How Can You Control Your Data?

In addition to your rights under the GDPR, set out in section 4, we aim to give you strong controls on Our use of your data for direct marketing purposes including the ability to opt-out of receiving emails from Us which you may do by unsubscribing using the links provided in Our emails.

Your Right to Withhold Information

You may access certain areas of Our Site without providing any data at all. However, to use all features and functions available on Our Site you may be required to submit or allow for the collection of certain data.

You may restrict Our use of Cookies. For more information, see section 13.

How Can You Access Your Data?

You have the right to ask for a copy of any of your personal data held by Us (where such data is held). Under the GDPR, no fee is payable and We will provide any and all information in response to your request free of charge. Please contact Us for more details at info@property118.com, or using the contact details below in section 14.

Our Use of Cookies

Our Site may place and access certain first party Cookies on your computer or device. First party Cookies are those placed directly by Us and are used only by Us. We use Cookies to facilitate and improve your experience of Our Site and to provide and improve Our products AND/OR  We have carefully chosen these Cookies and have taken steps to ensure that your privacy and personal data is protected and respected at all times.

All Cookies used by and on Our Site are used in accordance with current Cookie Law.

Before Cookies are placed on your computer or device, you will be shown a cookie prompt requesting your consent to set those Cookies. By giving your consent to the placing of Cookies you are enabling Us to provide the best possible experience and service to you. You may, if you wish, deny consent to the placing of Cookies; however certain features of Our Site may not function fully or as intended. You will be given the opportunity to allow only first party Cookies and block third party Cookies.

Certain features of Our Site depend on Cookies to function. Cookie Law deems these Cookies to be “strictly necessary”. These Cookies are shown below in section 13.5. Your consent will not be sought to place these Cookies, but it is still important that you are aware of them. You may still block these Cookies by changing your internet browser’s settings as detailed below in section 13.9, but please be aware that Our Site may not work properly if you do so. We have taken great care to ensure that your privacy is not at risk by allowing them.

The following first party Cookies may be placed on your computer or device:

Used only to collect performance data, with any identifiable data obfuscated

This cookie is strictly necessary for Cloudflare's security features and cannot be turned off.

Our Site uses analytics services provided by Google Analytics and Facebook. Website analytics refers to a set of tools used to collect and analyse anonymous usage information, enabling Us to better understand how Our Site is used. This, in turn, enables Us to improve Our Site and the products AND/OR services offered through it. You do not have to allow Us to use these Cookies, however whilst Our use of them does not pose any risk to your privacy or your safe use of Our Site, it does enable Us to continually improve Our Site, making it a better and more useful experience for you.

The analytics service(s) used by Our Site use(s) Cookies to gather the required information.

The analytics service(s) used by Our Site use(s) the following Cookies:

Helps to understand how their visitors engage with our website

Helps to understand how their visitors engage with our website

In addition to the controls that We provide, you can choose to enable or disable Cookies in your internet browser. Most internet browsers also enable you to choose whether you wish to disable all cookies or only third party cookies. By default, most internet browsers accept Cookies but this can be changed. For further details, please consult the help menu in your internet browser or the documentation that came with your device.

You can choose to delete Cookies on your computer or device at any time, however you may lose any information that enables you to access Our Site more quickly and efficiently including, but not limited to, login and personalisation settings.

It is recommended that you keep your internet browser and operating system up-to-date and that you consult the help and guidance provided by the developer of your internet browser and manufacturer of your computer or device if you are unsure about adjusting your privacy settings.

If you have any questions about Our Site or this Privacy Policy, please contact Us by email at info@property118.com, by telephone on 01603 489118, or by post at 1st Floor, Woburn House, 84 St Benedicts Street, Norwich, NR2 4AB. Please ensure that your query is clear, particularly if it is a request for information about the data We hold about you (as under section 12, above).

We may change this Privacy Policy from time to time (for example, if the law changes). Any changes will be immediately posted on Our Site and you will be deemed to have accepted the terms of the Privacy Policy on your first use of Our Site following the alterations. We recommend that you check this page regularly to keep up-to-date.

Don't have an account? Sign Up