Contrary to popular belief, giving up alcohol doesn’t always need you to have strong willpower, rather you can quit drinking without willpower. Yes, you heard that right. If your goal is to stop drinking alcohol, you have come to the right place. Now, let’s find out why cant you just quit alcohol with just willpower.

If you have tried to use willpower to quit drinking but failed in the past – it’s NOT you. It’s the method.

* Most people who rely solely on willpower to change their behaviors will fail at some point.

* When it comes to fighting against our own desire, willpower alone is not enough.

* Because willpower is like a battery that runs out when overused.

* The key to long-last change is to shift your beliefs.

If you have tried to use willpower to quit drinking but failed in the past, I want to let you know that your past failed attempt(s) say nothing about you, your ability, or your character; instead, it says everything about the method itself.

In reality, most people who rely solely on willpower to change their behavior will fail at some point. Although many people were made to believe that willpower is the key to quitting alcohol, it is not the answer to long-term behavior change.

In our society, we have a lot of misconceptions, especially about alcohol and sobriety. If you have fallen into the trap of relying on willpower to cut down on alcohol, you are not alone.

Let’s first take a look at what willpower is. I like this definition by John Ortberg, the author of The Life You’ve Always Wanted, who says, “Willpower is trying very hard to not do something you want to do very much.”

It truly captures our experience of using willpower – the hard battle of fighting against one’s own desires. Forget about an addictive substance like alcohol for a minute. Just think of a time when you tried to resist the temptations of your favorite dessert. Everyone knows how hard that is.

When there is an internal war between our own desires, willpower may help us win a few battles in the short run, but in the long run, it is bound to fail if that is all we have.

Many people falsely believe that willpower is something some people have and others don’t. That’s a misconception.

In reality, willpower is more like a battery we all have, and the battery gets low and runs out sometimes. Experts describe willpower as like a muscle that gets fatigued when overused.

In the 1990s, some researchers put together an experiment to test their hypothesis of a limited reserve of willpower, or what they call Ego Depletion. In the study, they brought a group of participants into a room filled with the smell of fresh-baked cookies.

In front of the participants was a table with two plates on it. One held delicious-looking cookies and another, a bowl of radishes. One lucky half was asked to sample the cookies, while the other half were made to eat the radishes only.

Afterward, both groups were asked to spend 30 minutes solving a puzzle that, in reality, was unsolvable. Of course, the poor participants were unaware of that.

As a result, while the lucky cookie-eaters persevered for nearly 19 minutes on average, the people who previously had to resist the temptation of the cookies gave up on the puzzle after about 8 minutes.

The researcher then concluded that radish-eater subjects’ self-control appeared to have depleted faster after they exerted it to resist the temptation of cookies.

If trying to resist the temptation of eating cookies for a short period of time can significantly reduce a person’s ability to exert self-control in a sequential task, then imagine what an almost impossible task it is to ask someone to constantly resist the temptation of the drink that they want very much, for not just hours, but days, months, even years.

Related: Cutting Down On Alcohol: 4 Steps To Curb Your Drinking

Please don’t get me wrong. Willpower still has its place in your journey to quit drinking, especially in the beginning.

However, to achieve long-lasting changes you need to change your beliefs. For example, many people want to eat healthily, but what separates those people who succeed from the ones that don’t is their belief.

People who can adapt to a healthier diet, consciously or subconsciously, have at some point decided that eating healthy equals joy, vitality, and longevity, and not eating healthy equals feeling bloated, drowsiness, and illness.

With these beliefs, the hard work of adopting a new lifestyle becomes a means to reap the rewards of what they truly want.

If you are curious about changing your relationship with alcohol, grab my free 30-Day Toolkit and start to cut down on drinking today. May you find peace, joy, and true freedom from alcohol.

Baumeister, R. F., Bratslavsky, E., Muraven, M., & Tice, D. M. (1998). Ego depletion: Is the active self a limited resource? Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 74(5), 1252–1265. https://doi.org/10.1037/0022-3514.74.5.1252

Written By Jeanette Hu