Oh hi. Welcome to my lunchtime obsession.

And I know. This is definitely one of those websites where we say things like “obsession” and “SO GOOD” and “omg wowwww” quite a bit.

But like, truly. This grain bowl? Ob-sessed.

And I know. It’s silly to be obsessed with a grain bowl. It’s just a bunch of veggies, a grain, and some dressing.

But man do I look forward to it every day when I’m eating it for lunch during work. And I thank my lucky stars I was feeling motivated enough the Sunday before to make a big batch to feed me quick, nutritious, delicious lunches all week long.

Do you farro? It’s a revelation for me. So much better than quinoa (IMO!) and just a lil more fancy than rice. It’s so chewy, so toothsome, and just really great in a salad like this. It’s a whole grain wheat, so it’s not gluten free, but it is oh-so very delicious.

As for the veggies/additions in this salad, my faves are:

* Red pepper again for crunch (and sometimes I go roasted red pepper if I’m feelin’ extra fancy)

* Shallot sliced real thin (or green onion… just something with a lil bite)

* Kalamata olives for something tangy and fun (omit if you’re not an olive person, but feel free to double the amount if you’re an olive fiend like me!)

* Grape tomatoes because you can find good ones pretty much any time of year

Feel free to pick and choose your Ultimate Veggie and Topping Lineup here, but those right there are my go-to.

As for dressing? I like this Creamy Balsamic Vinaigrette. Nay. I love this Creamy Balsamic Vinaigrette. And I sometimes make it extra thick by adding a bit more hummus so that it clings to the farro in just a very seductive and luxurious way.

Have I made you excited about this grain bowl yet?

What if I told you that I like to add a little bit of green to the party for even more health and fun?

Some baby kale and fresh chopped parsley is excellent, but I feel like spinach, basil, or mint would be great too. These are going to be “right before you eat it” additions, so they don’t get slimy and gross sitting in the fridge with their other grain bowl friends.

To meal prep, I store all of the grain bowl + veg + chickpeas in the same container all mixed up. Then, when I’m ready to eat, I scoop some out, add some baby kale and parsley, and drench it in my dressing.

Easy peasy, really filling, super delicious, and just a very quick meal prep option if you hate doing it like I do!

Let’s win lunch together now, shall we?

Print