(This next piece is my reaction to Gellman’s dumb comment about improvisation being a craft and not an art. If he told me today, I wouldn’t try to suss out an answer for myself. I wouldn’t give a comment from Gellman any credence at all.

The insult to me about craft disguised as practical instruction,  came from a guy whose biggest career memory had something to do with an audition to play Bozo on local Chicago TV. Gellman was a peon, a working stiff, who ate shit and took orders while he furtively struggled to survive. He, and Jane Morris too, they aren’t partners, they are just the same type, jealously guarding their turf. I’ve seen these types everywhere that I’ve gone, including improvisation, the law, and higher ed.

Turf monkeys have a few common characteristics. They are know it alls. They have to be in charge, and they are tyrants of pathetically small fiefdoms. They are insecure. And they always suck at what they nominally do, because they don’t concentrate on growing in their art, craft or skill. They concentrate on holding on to their position. They walk around like they are big deals, but big deals never act the way they do. Don’t get me wrong. People with actual power can be assholes too. But turf monkeys are sad assholes. They jealously protect their quarries like sea gulls on a garbage dump near an ocean. Seas of fresh fish lie yards away, but they are afraid to pursue it, so they cling to trash.).

What is mysticism? Mysticism is seeing the deep nature of things. I don’t believe that everyone has this gift. The story of Jesus can be read as the story of a mystic. Mystics teach and intrigue people, are loved and admired, threaten authority, insult the ignorant part of the masses (Father forgive them they know not what they do) and get crucified. Lesser known mystics and less divine mystics tell the truth and get fired, institutionalized and cast out from all manner of jobs, friendships and associations. Mystics naively challenge the prevailing general perception of reality which is, of course, always wrong. They never speak from a position of power other than the power of truth and the affection of good wavering people who struggle with the conflict of the mystics’ influence over their hearts in opposition to the rules of whatever authority has social control at the moment.

Some mystics crucify themselves. John Belushi did it. When not engaged in his art—his mystical perception expressed through his craft of comic acting—he escaped from the tumult of the world, which he felt all too acutely, into drugs—into death. Lenny Bruce had the same story. Richard Pryor tried to kill himself, but he was too strong and survived.

Artists are ruled by their mystical visions. They can’t help it. No economic or political authority can force them to change their stories. Art saves an artist’s life, because it places the artists’ insights into an external form and not his own person. The conservative masses can then just disagree with what he has to say and not place him in jail, the asylum, the electric chair, the unemployment office, or alone in the corner at Starbuck’s receiving one thousand dirty looks.

Young mystics think everyone looks at the world the way they do. They get beat up a lot. They gradually make their way to a social group of fellow mystics and create their early art and have a good time. The time comes when that young cohort separates and the members begin their individual adult lives. This is a dangerous time for the mystic. When not in the studio or on the stage creating art, the mystic/artist must learn to survive in the false world. He must subversively look like everyone else—have a job, conform in his dress and speech, wait in line at the airport, learn to hold his observations in reserve to be incorporated into his art and not blurt them out to random passers by.

I write this piece specifically for mystic-artists and the people who understand and love them.

Martin Luther King, Jr. was a mystic and a martyr. His martyrdom was necessary in order to achieve his specific goals. He directly spoke his truth to an awakening culture and of course was murdered by the reactionary element in every culture that hates such truth. King’s public life was his medium—the craft through which he expressed his art. All artists give their life for the insightful truth they were called to bring into the world, but most do it far less dramatically. One of King’s deepest messages was that life need not be violent in any circumstances—even when life was a struggle against gross injustice. He needed to be assassinated to demonstrate his point, as Gandhi and Jesus did before him. The stark contrast between the life of Martin Luther King and that of his killer James Earl Ray (and those like him) inspired generations of people to choose non-violence.

Otto Dix, the German painter, on the other hand, sat out World War II. He did not actively oppose Hitler. He chose solitude and made paintings with spiritual themes in contrast to the barbarity around him.

Near the end of his life, Pope John Paul II said that a time was coming when the Church would be unnecessary. Catholics believe in The Mystical Body of Christ, the idea that the temporal world and God are one. John Paul thought that in the future everyone in the world will have this consciousness. No one would need to seek the experience of the eternal in a church or through a proscribed sacramental rite. Life itself would be the all encompassing sacrament and the world a cathedral. Mystics are the leaders who have this consciousness first. Martyrdom and art are the two ways the consciousness is spread to everyone. Each liberates.

Art liberates the open members of an artists’ audience and protects the artist. Personally, I enjoy making some art and then going for a nice walk and out to dinner with my friends. I mourn the mystics who never learned to consistently ground their power and died far too young; and I venerate the heroes who knowingly gave their lives to communicate huge and important revelations to us all.

(It took me awhile to see who Gellman was. In the immediate aftermath of the Deb and Dan L. A. workshop, I wrote that I respected Gellman. I don’t now, and I think I was dishonest with myself when I said that I did then. I wanted to be part of that group of improvisers. I was betrayed by my superficial desire. Eventually I clarified my deepest wish. I just wanted a place to say what I have to say. Even Paul Sills would chide me in his good classes … “The Collective!” But my loyalty is not to the collective. It’s to the truth. I wanted it both ways — to be one of the gang, and to independently create my art. The gang had to go, and did.

My desire to fit in made me think that I respected a sad sack like Gellman. I was just so much better than Gellman, and frankly the entire group. Any collaboration was impossible. When I say better, I show my bias. Art is better by my lights, than entertainment. I don’t regret my trips to Massachusetts and L. A. I was surveying my past.

But the past is over. I’ll take my writing of the past nine years, a thousand times over improvising with my former peers. They did me a favor by giving me the heave ho. They would have held me back. They were very mean about it. That was just their way of saving face.

I felt that I was an exile before Dan and Deb asked me back (briefly). I thought I was readmitted and picking up where I left off in improvisational theater; but in reality I had traveled light years away and back, and improvisational theater was stuck in the same spot that I left it thirty years before.

In spite of my receding personal confusion, I still took Gellman’s dig at me and wrote the thoughtful piece below.

Yes, indeed, March 2015 was a good period for me.

What it must have been like for the old colleagues that I no longer knew — to see this guy, me … come back from the dead and perform miracles.

They crucified me, perhaps actually thinking that I had done something wrong (that’s a little too kind. They knew at least in part that their insults and indictments were lies, while down deep being overwhelmed by what I had become. I think I scared the shit out of them.)

Why I Threw Up in a Bucket: Notes on “Teaching” Improvisation; and Profanity

I was taking an improv class that was led by a friend of mine that I respect. I was onstage and at one point in an exercise I improvised throwing up in a bucket. My friend said sternly, “I have a rule in my class that there will be no crudeness such as that. People don’t want to see that.”

Let me break down this situation. I accept a “rule” in an improvisation or any other class only as far as the classroom door. In other words, I certainly support my friend’s facilitation of his ideas, but as an adult, and a mature artist, I decide what content that I deem appropriate for my work. I don’t go to a class to learn from a master. I rather go to have a kind of conversation with one. I’ll explain below why I disagree with his taboo on projectile vomiting in serious work below.

Also, I was very influenced years ago by a book by the Latin American educator Paolo Freire entitled Pedagogy of the Oppressed. In that book, Freire derided what he called “the banking system of education.” That is what Freire feels is a misguided pedagogy and I quite agree with him. The banking system teacher lays claim—-legitimate or not— (in this case I believe my friend had primarily taught novices recently and was finding his sea legs working with established pros like myself and my peers in this particular “class”) to superior experience, skill and knowledge and sets out to deposit his ideas (banking—get it) into the student brains so that they can carry it forth. Freire calls that type education oppression and I agree. Most good teachers would observe that the best education occurs when the teacher leads the student to discoveries instead of dictating what they should understand. Also, the best teachers make discoveries about the subject matter with their students because they have created a learning environment together. Rules calcify. Open-ended concepts engage.

I am sure my friend will disagree with this approach because he said in class that he views improvisation as a craft and is annoyed when it is described as an art. Any regular or even not so regular reader of this blog and/or anyone familiar with me and my work know my friend and I are definitely not on the same page here. I am quite taken with the notion of improvisation as an art. But I find common ground with my pal in the craft arena because without craft there is no art. it is a prerequisite. I got a lot out of what my friend had to say about craft—although I felt that some of his points of craft could be developed further…wonder and openness to discovering more is a virtue that comes from an artistic orientation.

My friend objected to some of my content in HIS class (it was definitely his room and not ours) especially the puking. I honored his request to stop at that time, but I believe that the crude and the profane will always be part of my work in general for several reasons:

1) When I was a kid my father laughed at my off-color and irreverent remarks. The disposition to make such remarks has become an authentic part of who I am. Part of my vision for my work is to freely express all parts of myself in it—the intellectual part, the emotional part, the silly part, the spiritual part, the profane part…I am a multitude.

2) I believe crude words and actions can have a moral dimension at times. The Chicago Bears signed Ray MacDonald yesterday. MacDonald is a very talented defensive lineman who played last year for the San Francisco 49ers. He also has been accused of the violent abuse of a woman. George McCaskey is George Halas’ grandson and the Chairman of the Bears. I heard him discussing his decision to give the go ahead to his general manager to sign MacDonald on the radio. McCaskey is quite straight-laced and would probably never improvise throwing up in a bucket. He is very polite and well-spoken in all of his public appearances. His demeanor is almost like that of a Catholic priest which is a vocation he probably considered at one time. (Not to take a cheap shot, but all of the soft words and gentle gestures common to the priesthood didn’t prevent that group from having a problem with pedophilia.) George wants to look pure and positive, but is he—completely? (I have no reason to believe that in many ways he isn’t a pretty nice guy.) No he is not. He said that at first he didn’t want to hire MacDonald because of the suspected abuse. But then he talked to the man. He heard his side of the story regarding the accusations and believed MacDonald was sincere. He didn’t speak to MacDonald’s accuser because women who claim that they are victims have a “bias,” he said, and their words are “unreliable.” That may or may not be true in this particular case, but McCaskey acted unjustly. Didn’t MacDonald have a bias that might make his words “unreliable”—namely that he wanted to play? Didn’t McCaskey have a bias that might make his decision making process unreliable because the Bears’ defensive line sucked last year and MacDonald is a stud who could solve a lot of problems on the field? This woman and society in general deserved a full investigation of her charges. He should have spoken to her and checked everything out if he was going to be a responsible corporate citizen.

Polite, courteous and respectable demeanor can be dishonest. In this case, McCaskey was lying to himself and the public. He signed this guy because he wants to win. He doesn’t want to know if the guy is a woman-beater or not. He doesn’t give a shit if a woman got beaten or not and MacDonald should be in jail. He doesn’t want to conduct a big investigation because that activity isn’t going to tackle any opposing running backs. And he wants everyone to think he is a pillar of the community, a high toned fair and moral man because that is his self-image. He may often be, but he wasn’t this time and he should cut the bullshit. I wonder if he ever won a Father of the Year award and has daughters. He should give it back. Telling a woman who may have been pummeled by a professional football player to shut up is offensive to me. Telling her to shut up in the tone of the village vicar makes it worse. That’s the kind of thing that I don’t like seeing not improvised barf in a bucket. Terry Gilliam has a great scene in his movie Brazil. He shows the “heroes” shoot at the “bad guys” in a car. And then he shows the “enemy” emerge from the car on fire. The effect was to produce moral outrage, not sadistic pleasure. The burning flesh said that high camera angles communicating courage and valor could be propagandistic covers for barbarism. Sometimes artists have to show people things that they don’t want to see in order to help them see.

3) I’m an artist and I want to reflect the whole world not only the polite parts. I actually love the ugly and find a paradoxical beauty in it. My friend said he wanted to see scenes that “weren’t cynical and solved problems.” I believe an artist should be brutally honest, and wildly and generously compassionate. Someone described the words of literary art once (Was it Thomas Mann?) as arrows dipped in love. Art HAS to be honest. It is not a universally polite vomit-free world. And the first step to solving any problem is to truthfully look at it—not avert your eyes from the unpleasant parts.

I thank my friend for doing the hard work of engaging me with his point of view. It has greatly helped me refine my own. I once was called a guru of improvisation. I emphatically rejected the title. Viola Spolin wrote in Improvisation for the Theater that experience is the only teacher and that “no one ever teaches anyone anything.” If she wouldn’t tell people how and what to do, I sure as hell am not going to start. All I can ever do is share my experience through whatever form I am working in—improvisation, writing, “teaching…” and invite the audience to engage with it, thus creating an experience for them as well.

Art is not about being “right.” It’s about being loving and brutally (yes brutally—because we create deeper understanding and therefore we destroy illusions) honest.

Next up —The Rick Blog Book Draft Chapter Six