Each week we’ll look into the slate of two-start pitchers and make some suggestions to fill out your fantasy baseball roster.

Of the widely available pitchers, there are a few decent options this week with some good possible plays and suitable options for points leagues, from what I see.

Yahoo 14%, ESPN 7%

Rodríguez has pitched admirably so far this season, although I can’t imagine he was thrilled to see his schedule for the first couple of weeks. His first three starts came on the road against the Rays, Astros and Blue Jays. Not surprisingly, he hasn’t picked up a win pitching for a Detroit Tigers team that can’t seem to compete again this season, especially against their early opponents.

The 30-year-old seems to be sharpening up as we get a few starts in. In his most recent outing, he stymied the hot Toronto offense, working a quality start, scattering seven hits but only one run with three strikeouts through six innings.

He lines up with the Guardians at home in a pitcher-friendly Comerica Park and then gets the Orioles in Baltimore. Cleveland’s offense has struggled in the early going. They have the second-fewest home runs with seven and a .677 OPS and .299 wOBA, both 27th in the majors.

The Orioles have been good against lefties, with a fourth-best .375 wOBA, but so have Tampa and Houston, and Rodríguez held his own against them.

Yahoo 58%, ESPN 45%

Cobb’s bad luck seems to have continued this season. He’s sporting a .378 BABIP and a 3.65 FIP, even though his xFIP of 2.87 is in line with last year’s mark. The 35-year-old is sporting a 3.14 ERA and is at almost a strikeout per inning, plus he has kept the walks down to 3.2% so far this year.

A start against the Marlins may help get his luck pointed in the right direction. Miami does have the 27th-ranked team wOBA at home against right-handers. Cobb is a ground ball pitcher at 61.7%, and the Marlins hit a lot of ground balls, so it might depend on how his defense plays behind him.

The Mets have a .201 team average against right-handers away from Citi Field, with a 19th-ranked .307 wOBA and below-league-average wRC+ of 86.

Yahoo 53%, ESPN 38%

After being unable to find the strike zone in his first two outings, with a combined 13 walks, but somehow only two runs allowed, Flaherty settled down in Colorado, where he pitched 5.1 innings with six strikeouts and only one free pass. He has kept his ERA down to 1.76 through his three outings but hasn’t gone a full six innings up to this point. He lines up against Arizona at home and then against the Mariners in Seattle.

The Diamondbacks are dead last with a .240 wOBA on the road against righties. Pair that with the fact that Busch Stadium plays as a great pitcher’s venue, and this looks to be a good matchup for Flaherty.

Shockingly, the 6-8 Mariners have a 21st-ranked .308 wOBA against right-handers, which drops to .281 at home, which puts them in 24th. They’re also in the bottom third of the league in strikeouts this season. T-Mobile Park is playing tough on hitters, so this is a good venue for Flaherty’s second start.

Yahoo 54%, ESPN 39%

Freeland has looked good this season, going at least six innings in each of his three starts, shutting down the Padres, Nationals, and Cardinals, the latter two in Colorado. He had five strikeouts in the last two outings and has a 0.96 ERA and WHIP.

Pittsburgh and Philadelphia are both middle-of-the-pack offenses versus southpaws at this point in the season, with .325 and .324 team wOBAs, respectively.

Yahoo 25%, ESPN 10%

Who knows what’s going on with the Rays’ rotation right now? The sharp-looking prospect may get two starts, but nothing is confirmed at this point.

Yahoo 33%, ESPN 9%

This is a play I’m making, even though it looks a little intimidating because of the Padres. It’s hard to say how far into the games he’ll get, as he’s just getting stretched out again.

Yahoo 14%, ESPN 4%

Maybe save this one for a deep league play.

Yahoo 6%, ESPN 4%

Wood gets the same matchups as his teammate Cobb but may be a better play in points leagues.