Impress, the largest invisible orthodontics chain in Europe has announced the opening of its first clinic outside of England. The brand new Cardiff clinic boasts four dental boxes at 170m2, specialising in world-class dentistry. The clinic opened earlier this week, at Tyndall Street, Cardiff, CF10 4BQ, Unit 3 in the Capital Quarter.

Impress aims to revolutionise the invisible orthodontic sector, using fully digital processes, high quality treatment and a skilled team to enable the company to become the largest chain of orthodontic clinics in Europe. Using the latest technology in all stages of diagnoses and treatment means people can relax in the knowledge that they’re receiving the highest quality of care from experienced professionals.

The success of treatment and customer satisfaction is largely down to Impress’ streamlined, hi-tech process. In the first consultation, the patient is given a complete oral check-up, an X-ray, and a 3D scan, which allows the medical team to create a virtual simulation of the entire treatment process. Each plan is 100% personalised, aligners are delivered to the patient’s home and the entire process is monitored through an app to ensure minimal interruption to daily life. Clinic visits are also available when needed for specialists to check progress and the treatment development in person.

Impress treatments are designed by highly skilled orthodontists specialising exclusively in invisible orthodontics, who have treated thousands of dental cases with careful attention and efficiency. Treatments are conducted by a medical team with more than 15 years’ experience, and their orthodontists have successfully treated over 50,000 patients.

After raising $150 million in July, the funding was earmarked to further expand Impress’ presence across Europe and the US, as well as propel the orthodontic experience further into the digital realm. The new Cardiff clinic is Impress’ eighth flagship in the UK, after opening clinics in Manchester, London, Sheffield, Birmingham, Liverpool, and Leeds as well as other international locations.

Ben Reed, CEO of Impress UK, said: “We’re delighted to open the new Cardiff clinic- our first in the UK outside of England! With our previously launched clinics in the UK being such a success, we can’t wait to bring our innovative, hi-tech approach to orthodontic care to Wales.

“At Impress, our mission is to provide our patients with a stellar experience of invisible orthodontics, and we want to make it accessible to as many people as possible. We look forward to seeing you in Cardiff very soon!”