Sudan’s army has rubbished claims by its paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF) rivals that a day-long ceasefire agreement had been reached, calling it mere propaganda.

“We are not aware of any coordination with the mediators and the international community about a truce, and the rebellion’s declaration of a 24-hour truce aims to cover up the crushing defeat it will receive within hours,” a Sudan Armed Forces spokesman said.

“We have entered a critical phase and our efforts are focused on achieving its objectives at the operational level,” the army statement adds.

Earlier, RSF said it was committing to a 24-hour ceasefire to allow the safe passage of civilians and for humanitarian aid

The head of RSF, Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, said the deal had been reached following a conversation with United States(US) Secretary of State Antony Blinken and “other friendly nations”.

“The RSF reaffirmed its approval of a 24-hour armistice to ensure the safe passage of civilians and the evacuation of the wounded,” Hemedti said.

He accused the army of failing to honour an earlier ceasefire by the United Nations (UN), saying the soldiers were allegedly “bombing densely populated areas from the air and endangering civilian lives”.

“These actions are a flagrant violation of the foundations and  principles of international and humanitarian law,” he added.

On the other hand, the state-owned Sudan Radio has remained silent since Saturday.

It is unclear why, as this station broadcasts and operates from the same premises as the state TV channel, which resumed broadcasts on Monday morning after having been off the air for more than 20 hours.

Reels of patriotic music and footage of the army’s victories have been played on TV, and in a statement on Facebook, the Sudanese army said it had retaken control of the TV premises from the rival Rapid Support Forces (RSF).

State TV also aired a statement by RSF’s spokesman, Naj al- Din Ismael, saying he had defected from the paramilitary group and joined the national army.—BBC