Cross River State Governor, Ben Ayade, has decried the stealing of government assets in the twilight of his administration. The governor, who spoke, yesterday, at the state executive chamber of the Governor’s Office..

Cross River State Governor, Ben Ayade, has decried the stealing of government assets in the twilight of his administration. The governor, who spoke, yesterday, at the state executive chamber of the Governor’s Office, Calabar, while swearing in Udiba Udiba as the state’s Commissioner for Assets Management, as well as Martins Osibe as a Commissioner in the state Civil Service Commission, vowed to deal with culprits.

Ayade also used the occasion to disband the state’s Scraps Metal Regulatory Agency, accusing it of unwholesome activities.

The office of the Commissioner for Assets Management, according to the governor, has the responsibility to document every single asset that belongs to the state. He said: “Cross River has a very sad story regarding assets remittances. Our assets have often been taken away, because we do not have inventory of them.

“In this time and age, people still see government assets as nobody’s assets. As government is winding down, they convert official cars, change number plates and hide the cars from government.”

“Some people move from one ministry to the other taking government assets. They disappear with them.

“Government vehicles are disappearing. If a vehicle has a small dent and it is sent to mechanic workshop, they will disappear from there. Government will buy official vehicles that are functional and somebody will seize them and say it is scrap.

“We must have an asset register for the state, indicating that if you go to Obudu, for instance, this particular building belongs to Ministry of Agriculture, that particular land belongs to the state and it is a property of the state government.”He berated the disbanded Scrap Metal Agency for illegally pilfering government assets, including dumpsters and labelling them scraps.

He added: “I hear Scrap Metal Regulatory Agency is going around causing problems and seizing everything, saying they are scraps.

“Let me use this responsibility to announce that the Scrap Metal Regulatory Agency is, hereby, scrapped. The agency will no longer exist, because it will now come under Asset Management Ministry.”

Ahead of the inauguration of the 10th National Assembly, Senators of the opposition political parties are already meeting to decide on who to support as the Senate President.

International and indigenous operators, yesterday, decried poor implementation of the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA), insisting overlapping regulations in the Act remain a disincentive.

• NEC expels Arambabi Abayomi, suspends eight others over anti-party activities The Presidential Candidate of the Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi, has urged Nigerians to remain calm and steadfast in the journey to reclaim the mandate of a New Nigeria. A statement by the Obi/Datti media team said Obi in spirit-lifting words to Nigerians, particularly…

Cross River State Governor, Ben Ayade, has decried the stealing of government assets in the twilight of his administration. The governor, who spoke, yesterday, at the state executive chamber of the Governor’s Office..

Governor of Abia State and Visitor to the Abia State University Uturu (ABSU), Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu, yesterday, directed the management of the university to immediately nullify/cancel the 350 per cent school fees increase it made.

The Executive Secretary, the Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC), Emmanuel Jime, has assured shippers and manufacturers that shipping companies will bear the cost of the Cargo Tracking Note (CTN) when implemented.

Maritime experts have emphasised the need to address challenges that may hinder the growth of the country’s maritime industry and its earning power from the blue economy estimated at $24 trillion yearly.

In a bid to boost artisanal and industrial fishing in Lagos State, Ceylon Marine has concluded plans to launch its refrigerated mini-fishing trawlers to grow the sub-sector and reduce fish importation.

Norway, Nigeria meet on maritime security as pirates return to GoG

The recent pirate attacks in the Gulf of Guinea (GoG) have raised fresh global concern about the resurgence of the menace that costs the region about $1.9 billion yearly financial loss.

The Chief Judge of Delta State, Justice Tessy Diai, has granted bail to  48-year-old David Olori, an inmate of  Kwale Custodial Centre, diagnosed with liver and suspected kidney failure on health grounds.

Justice Maureen Esowe of the  National Industrial Court of Nigeria (NICN) sitting in Lagos , yesterday, voided  Lagos State Parks and Garages and reinstated operations of the Road Transport Employers Association of Nigeria (RTEAN) in the state.