It might not have been the toughest last over in an IPL game, but it was indeed a special one for the Junior Tendulkar. With the opposition eight down and 20 runs still to get, Arjun Tendulkar bowled a sensational last over and helped his side register a stunning win against SunRisers Hyderabad at the Rajiv Gandhi Stadium. Not just this, he also picked up his maiden wicket in the Indian Premier League.

The youngster, who is only 2 matches old in the competition, impressed one and all with his pace and movement of the ball. He has been receiving praise from all corners for his amazing performance in the match last night. In fact, not just the last over, Arjun was amazing throughout his spell.

After a long time, a Tendulkar once again opened the game for Mumbai Indians, but this time with the ball. He took the new ball for Mumbai as he did in his debut game, but this time he showed better control on the Hyderabad pitch, giving a tough time to opener Mayank Agarwal in the first couple of overs. However, it was the last over, where he impressed everyone with his solid control over the ball.

Rohit called up Arjun Tendulkar for the final over of the match with SunRisers Hyderabad needing 20 runs to win. He dismissed Sunrisers Hyderabad’s Bhuvneshwar Kumar off the last ball of the game to help his side register a stunning 14-run win over SRH.

One of the finest broadcasters in the game, Ravi Shastri was on the commentary panel in the final over, which made for a memorable watch for the viewers watching on their Television sets.

1st ball – Arjun started the over with a clear plan – overpitched deliveries wide of off against Abdul Samad. It was a dot, all thanks to the quick movements of wicketkeeper Ishan Kishan.

2nd ball – In the second ball, Samad managed to make contact as he drifted it down to the third man, but he was run out on completing his single.

3rd ball – Though Arjun stuck to his plan, but the third ball ended up going for a wide.

Arjun conceded just 4 runs in his first three balls.

4th ball – In the next ball, Arjun changed his line as he nailed a perfect yorker off which batter Mayank Markande managed to get two runs.

It was at this moment went the cameraman showed a tensed Sachin Tendulkar on the giant screen, whose eyes were fixed on his son.

Impressed with the yorker, Shastri said: “This is good stuff. He is nailing in those yorkers. The thought process is good with the line he wants to bowl and the clarity of thought,”

5th ball – On the 5th ball, Arjun followed the batter and nailed another yorker on.

“This is turning out to be a superb over,” exclaimed Shastri.

6th ball – The last ball was fuller, as Bhuvneshwar Kumar smashed it straight to Rohit at the cover, who grabbed the ball with both hands. Arjun picked his maiden IPL wicket and the dismissal helped in MI register a stunning win over SRH.

Later, after the match, Rohit Sharma, his captain, who took the catch that got Arjun Tendulkar his wicket, hailed the youngster and said, “Arjun has been a part of this team for the last three years [though he didn’t make the XI]. I have seen him grow over the years. He understands what he wants to do and he is quite confident about what he wants to do for the team as well.”

He added: “We saw in this lead up to the IPL what he was doing; he was bowling fast, nailing those yorkers, and quite clear in his plans as well. Keeping things easy – that’s what he is trying to do [for the team]. He is trying to swing the new ball and bowl yorkers at the death.”