Over 55 million people worldwide have dementia, with 10 million new cases emerging each year. Alzheimer’s disease is the most common form of dementia (contributing to 70% of cases).

Learning how to prevent short-term memory loss can help you stay sharp, even as you get older. Here are five techniques you can use for preventing dementia.

With these tips, you can sharpen your memory, potentially improving your quality of life as you get older. Read on to learn more.

You are what you eat! It’s important to provide your body with the vitamins and minerals it needs for a healthy body and mind. Consider adding more brain-healthy foods to your diet.

Foods that are associated with better brain power include:

Limit your intake of processed and packaged foods. A well-balanced diet can reduce your risk of type 2 diabetes, which is associated with Alzheimer’s disease. Track what you eat using an app like MyFitnessPal.

If you’re not getting enough vitamins and minerals through your diet, consider adding supplements to your routine. For example, you can visit sagenutrients.com for a cognitive edge. Consult a doctor before taking new supplements to avoid interactions with any medications you’re taking.

Keep your blood pumping, body healthy, and brain active by exercising. Exercising helps your brain release dopamine; the chemical associated with motivation and pleasure. When you feel good mentally and physically, you can minimize stress and anxiety.

Aim for 30 minutes of physical activity each week. You can go for a walk, jog, or try vigorous aerobic activity with HIIT classes. Consider bringing friends and family members with you to remain socially engaged.

Try to get seven to nine hours of sleep each night. Sleep gives your brain and body the chance to refresh. It also gives long-term memories the chance to form.

Otherwise, you might experience memory loss and issues concentrating during the day.

If you’re having trouble sleeping, consider talking to a doctor to determine the underlying cause (such as a sleep disorder like sleep apnea).

Consider learning a new skill to keep your brain healthy and active.

Remain socially engaged by going out and talking to others. Join groups, clubs, or organizations. Otherwise, hang out with friends and family members.

Social interaction will stimulate the brain, benefiting your brain health by helping you remain sharp. Without engagement, anxiety, stress, and depression can build, affecting brain function.

Don’t put your brain health at risk. Instead, start preventing memory loss and sharpening your short-term memory. With these tips, you can keep your body and brain active throughout the year.

Make a change for the better with a healthy brain today.

Searching for more tips? You’re on the right blog.

Explore our latest articles today for more helpful advice.