The Stanley Cup Playoffs start Monday, and the Boston Bruins are favored to win their seventh Stanley Cup.  The Bruins won 65 regular season games beating the record of 62 held by the 2018-19 Tampa Bay Lightning and 1995-96 Detroit Red Wings. Interestingly, neither the Red Wings nor the Lightning won the Stanley Cup in those seasons.

Boston also set the record for most points in a season with 135, breaking the record held by the 1976-77 Montreal Canadiens. That Montreal team set the record in 80 games, and Boston broke the record in its 81st game.

The defending Stanley Cup champion Colorado Avalanche has the second-best odds of winning the Stanley Cup. That’s despite being a team that has suffered a ton of injuries throughout the season, including captain Gabriel Landeskog missing the entire regular season with a knee injury. He’ll also miss the playoffs. Colorado somehow still won the Central division on the season’s final day and play Seattle in the first round.

The Edmonton Oilers have the third-best odds. Why? Have you seen what Connor McDavid did this season? He scored 64 goals, added 89 assists for an eye-popping 153  points. If you think the Oilers can win the Stanley Cup, you’re almost better off betting McDavid (+1100) to win the Conn Smythe as its difficult to see a situation in which McDavid isn’t the Stanley Cup Playoffs MVP if the Oilers lift the cup for the first time since 1990.

Can the Toronto Maple Leafs finally make it past the first round? Toronto hasn’t made it past the first round since 2004 despite making the playoffs yearly since 2017. Last year, Auston Matthews and crew had a 3-2 series lead against the Tampa Bay Lightning before losing 2-1 in Game 7 at home. The Lightning — a team that has won two Stanley Cups and made three Stanley Cup Finals in the last three years — is struggling right now. They’ve lost six of 10 games heading into the playoffs and can’t seem to find the swagger that led them to win 11 straight playoff series before losing to the Avalanche in the Final last year.

Tampa Bay has had only a 48 percent expected goal share since late February and that is amongst the worst for all playoff teams during that time frame.

The Hurricanes, Devils and Rangers all have +1200 odds to win the Stanley Cup. The problem is that only one of those teams will advance to the Eastern Conference Final as they’re in the same side of the bracket. The Rangers and Devils play each other in the first round.

The Seattle Kraken make their playoff debut after missing the playoffs in their inaugural season. They have the second worst odds to win the Stanley Cup at +4000, only behind the New York Islanders at +5000.

New Jersey Devils (-120) vs. New York Rangers (+100)