After talking about some great period products in my Period Products for a Feel-Good Flow Part 1 here are several more alternatives make your monthly flow more comfortable and environmentally friendly.

If you haven’t heard of a menstrual cup, where the hell have you been the last few years. The newest, most ‘innovative’ (though it’s quite simple) period product to come about in a century (which really only serves to speak volumes about period press and attitudes, but I won’t start that again…). The first menstrual cup was patented back in 1937 – designed by American actor Leona Chalmers – read more here of menstrual cup history. The 80s saw The Keeper cup released – still on the market – but it’s really taken 35 years for this period product to become mainstream (or just properly marketed). Menstrual cups minimise to the max your impact on the environment, one cup lasting up to ten years, saving you a helluva lot of money in the meantime.

Saalt’s mooncup is made from soft-touch 100% medical grade silicone. Tricky to get started with, but transformative when you do (- or so I’m told, by a good % of my female friends who’ve converted). The bulb-shape cup is the most popular. Saalt offers discs too, and while shapes differ from brand to brand, the best results and comfort are determined by anatomy as well as personal choice.

What’s different about these products is that they collect, rather than absorb, blood. Discs can be worn during sex, as they sit higher up under your cervix, resting within the vaginal fornix. Menstrual cups stay in place within the vaginal canal, around where a tampon would sit, by a seal and light suction preventing leaks. If inserted properly, you can’t feel it at all. Which, at the start, is easier said than done.

It’s compact – you don’t need to be stuffing tampons up your sleeve to nip to the toilet when you’re out and about; Hell, it holds three-times the amount of a tampon and only needs emptying every 12 hours. And you can wear it during the night. A game changer once you get the hang of it.

Cups don’t dry out the vagina like tampons can, nor do they contain any harmful substances. They’re also reusable, eco-friendly and don’t create any waste – and, if we’re talking money, they’re cheaper in the long run. Fairest of all, Saalt offers a money back guarantee after two periods if you’re not feeling the cup/disc, or a replacement size.

Saalt’s version is BPA free, Latex free, Toxin free, Vegan & cruelty free, and FDA registered and compliant. Unlike some tampons, it doesn’t contain any substances harmful for your body, nor contain substances that harm your fanny flora.

Pro – 12 hours without feeling or thinking about changing anything. Liberating…

Con –  In all honesty it’s a lot more rigid than I imagined it to be (I was expecting a much more flexi, jelly-like rim. As well as a little daunting, it takes a while to get going with (and potentially to find the right size).

Hack – I’m still getting to grips with it, but a tip passed on to me is that it’s best done in the shower.