SINGAPORE - Travellers heading to Malaysia over the Hari Raya Puasa weekend should expect heavy traffic at the Woodlands and Tuas Checkpoints from Thursday to Monday.

The Immigration and Checkpoints Authority (ICA) on Tuesday advised those travelling by car or bus to factor in additional waiting time for immigration clearance.

With traffic flow through the checkpoints returning to pre-pandemic levels during peak hours, ICA anticipates that the traffic at both land checkpoints to be similar to that of the Hari Raya Puasa long weekend in 2018.

Then, more than 1.5 million travellers crossed the land checkpoints, averaging about 380,000 crossings a day, ICA said. The waiting time for travellers departing by car via the land checkpoints was up to three hours.

There were also continuous tailbacks from Malaysia’s checkpoints for departing motorists, resulting in vehicular queues extending beyond Seletar Expressway towards the Woodlands Checkpoint and along Ayer Rajah Expressway towards the Tuas Checkpoint.

More recently, more than 235,000 people left Singapore through the land checkpoints on April 6, ahead of the Good Friday long weekend. It was the highest daily exit traffic recorded since land borders with Malaysia reopened about a year ago.

ICA had also said then that close to 1.4 million travellers cleared the two land checkpoints over the long weekend period from April 6 to 9.

To prevent drivers from using the motorcycle lane to jump ahead of the queue of cars along the viaduct leading into Woodlands Checkpoint, the two lanes on the viaduct have recently been demarcated with continuous double white lines between them, ICA said on April 4.

Enforcement cameras have also been installed along the viaduct to identify cars that violate traffic rules by crossing the double white lines. Those caught would face a fine of $150 and four demerit points.

To facilitate immigration clearance and improve travellers’ experience without compromising security, ICA had rolled out several initiatives, such as the installation of 64 additional automated gates at the immigration bus halls at the land checkpoints in 2022.

This allows more bus travellers to clear immigration through the automated lanes and more officers can be deployed dynamically to areas at the car and motorcycle zones which require more support to manage traffic congestions.

On Sunday, Malaysian news outlet The Star reported that about two million vehicles are expected to enter Johor through the land route between Malaysia and Singapore via the Johor Causeway and the Second Link in conjunction with Hari Raya Puasa.

It also reported that traffic congestion is expected in 47 locations, and 27 accident hotspots have been identified in Johor. Some 700 officers and traffic personnel will be deployed to monitor the main roads throughout the state, especially at the hotspots, it added.