During my Freshman year at Howard, I spent most of my time hanging out with two people: Henry and Ish. While Henry and I have remained close — and co-host a podcast, I lost touch with Ish after he transferred our junior year.

Ish and I met during summer orientation, initially bonding over our shared dorm assignment. Once school started, his corner room quickly became our go-to spot to play video games, listen to music, and occasionally freestyle. Our friendship was rooted in our similar laid-back personalities and taste in music.

As I moved into my dorm junior year, Ish greeted me with an unusual frown. He told me he was transferring, and suddenly things changed. Since then, we’ve seen each other a couple of times and mostly communicate through occasional messages on Instagram.

Last month, I scrolled and saw Ish announcing the release of an EP, under the name Sa’id. For the first in years, we caught up over Zoom to discuss his debut project, fatherhood, and more.

Noah Lyons: To start off, why now?

Sa’id: First off, thanks for having me, bro. I started rapping when I was 12 and recording around 19. Took some time to put something out because I’m so self-critical. I wanted to be sure I did this right.

NL: Was there a specific thing that prompted you to take it seriously? An album must require a different level of planning and direction, right?

Sa’id: Yeah, it is. I’ve had some songs recorded for a while but felt like I had nothing to say. I didn’t want to say a bunch of bullshit, and for some that works, but that’s not the approach I wanted to take.

I had a bad mental health episode last year, so that was honestly one reason. I felt I had to put something out to make myself feel better. Getting married and having a son reminded me that time is moving. I just turned 28, I don’t want to be 40 regretting things I didn’t do.

NL: Is that why you called the project “The Evil Friend’s Ballroom”, with you on the cover wearing a straight jacket while someone reaches over? Was that to represent you feeling trapped or as if something is trying to get you?

Sa’id: The “Evil Friend” is my OCD, which is never leaving me but how I cope with it is key. The ballroom represents a space where you can dance and do your thing, which represents my brain. So essentially it does whatever it wants, but only in that space. It’s a play on words.

NL: I loved the first track, “The Jungle”. It’s rare to hear some rap over an instrumental that doesn’t have a snare or anything to keep you on time. What made you want to do that?

Sa’id: Outside close friends, most people don’t know I rap. I went into the first track wanting people to just hear my voice. I thought it would be easier to hear me for the first time without anything distracting the message.

NL: Putting it first really felt like you were trying to get the listener to stick around. Did you work on that track first or did you finish the project and make the decision?

Sa’id: Damn, you ask good questions, bro. I first did the song six months ago and originally talked over the beat. I thought it over and didn’t want to throw people off too much on the first track. So two weeks before the project came out I changed everything, and re-wrote it in like 10 minutes.

NL: I know your Dad has had a big impact on you. What influence has he had in your journey to get here, and how do you see music generally?

Sa’id: I’ve probably told you this, but one of my favorite producers is J Dilla. My Dad played Dilla and Slum Village, all the time! The beat on the last track was inspired by Dilla.

My Dad is always critical of a song’s lyrics and beat. You know how old heads are, “they not saying nothing” or “the beat is wack” type shit, you know? I think hearing that so many times made me balance lyricism with entertainment.

NL: What did your Dad say when he listened to the project?

Sa’id: I actually haven’t told my Dad or Mom about the project. They’ve heard my stuff before but I just haven’t shared it with them. My mom follows me on Instagram, so she may have seen it. I should probably send it over after this.

NL: Has your approach to music changed since becoming a Dad?

Sa’id: Oh yeah, I want to get into the habit of practicing what I preach. As a Father, I want to tell my son to pursue his passions. He inspired me to put my music out and take rapping seriously. I always want to encourage him and back that up with my actions.

NL: Do you feel like putting this out was affirming to you as a father and person? Especially considering how everything that you’ve been through personally.

Sa’id: At the core, the project is authentically me. Even if this is the only thing I put out, god forbid, I’ll always have this. I finally did something that has been a passion of mine since I was a kid. If nothing else comes from this I can tell my son I did what I wanted to do, and that means more than anything.

NL: That’s all the questions I have, anything you want to say to wrap up?

Sa’id: I’m just grateful to just put something out. Anything can happen, I just saw that shooting in Nashville…

NL: Which has to hit different now that you have a child?

Sa’id: Exactly, seize the time. Living for me and my family is top of mind.