Eleven people died of heatstroke in India after an estimated one million spectators waited for hours in the sun at a government-sponsored awards ceremony, officials said on Monday.

Around 20 people were hospitalised and 300 felt ill at the event near the western city of Mumbai on Sunday, when temperatures hit close to 38 degrees Celsius (100 Fahrenheit) with high levels of humidity, local media reported.

Senior government officials attended the ceremony, including Interior Minister Amit Shah, who praised the crowd for waiting so long in the sun.

The office of Maharashtra state Chief Minister Eknath Shinde described it as a "sad and disturbing incident" and promised compensation for the victims' relatives.

India's ruling Bharatiya Janata Party said around a million people attended the event, the Indian Express newspaper reported.

The opposition Congress party accused the government of negligence and said it should face criminal charges.

Heatwaves have killed more than 6,500 people in India since 2010, and last year saw record temperatures in several cities across the country.

The hot spells are becoming harsher and more frequent across South Asia, spurred by climate change, according to scientists.

Authorities in the eastern state of West Bengal announced a week-long shutdown of all schools, colleges and universities from Monday due to the heat, local media reported.

Last year, India suffered coal shortages, the main source of electricity in the nation of 1.4 billion people, as electricity demand peaked in the heat.

Many parts of India rely on trains to supply water during the summer.

Scientists also believe the annual monsoon rainy season is becoming more erratic and powerful, causing greater flooding.

Suffering under the worst heat wave in more than six decades, Argentina has issued health warnings to nine southern and central provinces, the National Meteorological Service, said Saturday.

This is the eighth heat wave to hit the country in this Southern Hemisphere summer, with temperatures close to 40 Celsius (104 Fahrenheit).

Over the past decade, Argentina has never seen more than four or five such heat waves per season, the SMN said.

The three months from November through January were ...  read more

Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.

Biden to hold first meeting with Colombia's leftist president

UAE and China promise Pakistan $1.3 bln to get IMF deal on track

China official visits Nicaragua to launch housing initiative

Nicaragua breaks ground on housing construction with aid from China

NASA satellite's elusive green lasers spotted at work

Fungi makes meal of hard-to-recycle plastic: new study

Data can now be processed at the speed of light

Google selects SpaceChain into its Startups Program

El Nino and +IOD expected to severely impact global weather in coming months

Bangladeshis pray for rain as temperatures soar

Water, water everywhere: Wet winter boosts California's reservoirs

Critical observations of sinking coasts

Revealing invisible Himalaya glacier loss

Snowball Earth might have been a slushball

Ice sheets can collapse faster than previously thought possible

The ice in Antarctica has melted before

'Really hard' -- the life of an Amazon Brazil nut harvester

Spain vows to block farming near threatened wetlands

Historic drought adds to Argentina's economic woes

Quake hit one-fifth of Turkey's food production: UN

Tongan volcanic explosion in 2022 was largest natural explosion in a century

'Flash drought' frequency increasing due to climate change: study

Cyclone hits Australia bringing 'record-breaking' wind speeds

Earthquake strikes off Canada's west coast

Calm returns to Ethiopian region hit by protests

Climate focus shouldn't 'dilute' Africa development needs: World Bank official

At least 56 civilians killed as Sudan battles rage for second day in capital

Germany vows further support for Sahel after Mali exit

New evidence pushes open habitats in Africa back by 10 million years

A new peptide may hold potential as an Alzheimer's treatment

Composition of joint lubricant potential culprit behind osteoarthritis

What the Jetsons got right and wrong about the future of work

The content herein, unless otherwise known to be public domain, are Copyright 1995-2023 -  Space Media Network . All websites are published in Australia and are solely subject to Australian law and governed by Fair Use principals for news reporting and research purposes. AFP, UPI and IANS news wire stories are copyright Agence France-Presse, United Press International and Indo-Asia News Service. ESA news reports are copyright European Space Agency. All NASA sourced material is public domain. Additional copyrights may apply in whole or part to other bona fide parties. All articles labeled "by Staff Writers" include reports supplied to Space Media Network by industry news wires, PR agencies, corporate press officers and the like. Such articles are individually curated and edited by Space Media Network staff on the basis of the report's information value to our industry and professional readership. Advertising does not imply endorsement, agreement or approval of any opinions, statements or information provided by Space Media Network on any Web page published or hosted by Space Media Network.  Our advertisers use various cookies and the like to deliver the best ad banner available at one time. All network advertising suppliers have GDPR policies (Legitimate Interest) that conform with EU regulations for data collection. By using our websites you consent to cookie based advertising. If you do not agree with this then you must stop using the websites from May 25, 2018.  Privacy Statement . Additional information can be found here at  About Us .