Centrally situated in the premier shopping and entertainment district of Ginza, the hotel design is inspired by traditional Japanese games and Matsuri festivals, with touches of Japanese aesthetics throughout the property. The 135-key ibis Styles Tokyo Ginza East is set to open in June of 2023

ibis Styles Tokyo Ginza East is conveniently located within four minutes’ walk from three different subway stations and a 12-minute walk from Tokyo Station and Ginza Station.

The hotel’s 135 guestrooms blend traditional and contemporary elements, with some rooms incorporating Japanese tatami flooring, while a spacious restaurant with floor-to-ceiling windows offers an array of Japanese and Western dishes for breakfast.

A rarity in Tokyo, the hotel also features indoor and open-air baths on the rooftop, the only hotel in Ginza to offer such facilities, providing guests with a place of relaxation away from the hustle and bustle of the city. An outdoor terrace on the top floor offers views of Tokyo’s cityscape and the symbolic Tokyo Skytree.

“ibis Styles Tokyo Ginza East is another great addition to our portfolio in Japan, offering travellers even more options to choose from when visiting this amazing country. With features such as a rooftop bath and a terrace overlooking the city, this property will certainly offer a unique array of facilities within the economy segment”, said Garth Simmons, Chief Executive Officer for Accor’s Premium, Midscale & Economy Division in South & Southeast Asia, Japan, South Korea and India.

The ibis Styles brand is dedicated to delivering a trendy and economical hotel experience with playful designs. Each ibis Styles hotel has a unique design concept built around a precise theme that offers fun, and surprising moments. It is an ideal spot for those seeking a creative space to be inspired.

Accor currently operates 20 properties (4,950 keys) in Japan, across several brands including Pullman, Swissôtel, Mercure, Novotel, ibis, ibis Styles and ibis Budget with 5 more properties (1,018 keys) in the pipeline.