It seems like you spend $200 any time you step outside in New York City. Between oat-milk lattes, drinks with friends, trinket shopping, Citi Bike rides, and treats from the Mister Softee ice cream truck, life in the city can quickly add up when you’re always on the go like I am. To curb my spending habits, I’ve restricted my non-essential shopping to the bare minimum, spending money on transportation, groceries, and essential bills only. Yes, it’s true. I haven’t made a non-essential purchase since last month. Please clap.

But all it takes for me to throw financial stability to the wind is Shopbop’s four-day spring shopping extravaganza. The retailer is offering discounts on beloved brands like Ganni, Rails, and Staud. From April 17 to April 20, you can take 15% off $200+, 20% off $500+, and 25% off $800+ with the code STYLE.

Naturally, as someone currently on a tight budget, I’ve rounded up the best affordable items from Shopbop’s sale. If you’re cautious, look away! Otherwise, you might end up with a few packages coming your way after you scroll through these 44 Shopbop finds.

This top is ideal for the office and a date night!

This under-$100 top is living rent-free in my mind.

If you’re always losing your gold hoops (Hello, it’s me!), this pair is easy on your wallet.

Never think twice about investing in good denim.

This green color is everything to me.

Daisy Jones & The Six would like a word with this top.

Denim-on-denim was a popular outfit choice at Coachella this year. This cute denim vest hits the mark.

I’m in love with how easy and breezy this top is.

A pair of Levi’s for under $100? These are practically begging to be bought.

Ask every member of Gen Z you know, and they’ll tell you they’ve had these on their wish list at some point.

The cutouts on this cardigan are calling my name.

Maxi skirts are some of my favorite clothing items to shop for at the moment.

You can never have too many basic white tanks.

The ruching on this tee takes it to a whole other level.

So easy to pair with leather slides or sneakers in the summer.

Although this summer is all about the maxi skirt, this miniskirt instantly caught my eye.

Cargo pants are all over my summer Pinterest board.

Pearls are such a summer thing to me.

Chunky flip-flops may be controversial, but I love them.

For being less than $100, this Reformation top has never looked better.

If you’re into leather pants but don’t want to suffer heatstroke this summer, may I suggest this lovely alternative instead?