The Mechanical Explosion Proof Equipment Market was valued at $7.4 billion in 2021 and is estimated to reach $9.9 billion by 2027, with a CAGR of 5.9% from 2022 to 2027.

The machinery is chosen in industries that engage in a variety of activities that release flammable gases into the environment, such as mining, nuclear power, defense, and chemical processing. These tools are crucial for controlling and averting explosions of volatile gases. Industrial safety regulations that are more stringent and rising energy needs are what are driving the market for mechanical explosion proof equipment. Industries like mining and petrochemicals require electrical and other equipment to operate in hazardous conditions that can result in explosions or fires. The majority of fireproofing and explosion-proof technologies is developed to guard against fires that originate outside of applications or equipment.

The market for mechanical explosion proof equipment is growing as a result of strict laws for the protection of workers in dangerous situations and requirements for the use of explosion and fireproof equipment.

Globally, the market for mechanical explosion proof equipment is anticipated to grow as a result of factors like increasing demand for integrated systems, developments in the automation sector, an expansion of industrial sectors, and tight government rules governing the handling of hazardous regions.

In addition, as energy use rises, so does the need for fuel and energy. The presence of flammable gases, flammable liquid-produced vapors, combustible liquid-produced vapors, combustible dust, or ignitable fibers/flying particles in sufficient quantities to produce explosive mixtures that may ignite when exposed to extremely high temperatures and pressure levels constitutes a hazardous location. Deploying specialized, secure technology in these circumstances is essential to reduce the danger of an explosion.

Such a fatal chain reaction might be started by even a tiny spark. High-capital and machine-intensive industries including aircraft, manufacturing, and defense require explosion-proof devices. Therefore, the price of the required safety equipment in these businesses is very high. The industry makes extensive use of low-voltage explosion-proof motors, and many tiers two and tier three manufacturers provide standard single-phase and three-phase explosion-resistant AC and DC motors. Pumps, compressors, and blowers in the oil and gas sector all use low-voltage motors. The oil industry is expected to expand its onshore (shale extraction) and offshore (FPSO and offshore production units) activities, which will propel the market for mechanical explosion proof equipment.

The key driving force behind the mechanical explosion proof equipment market is the expanding use of integrated systems in manufacturing facilities and the rise in safety concerns as a result of the rising frequency of various mishaps in various hazardous environment sectors. Additionally, it is anticipated that the increased digitalization and automation of company processes will be advantageous. The growth of the building sector in recent years has been reasonable. The pattern is anticipated to continue in the ensuing years, leaving a sizable amount of space open for industrial and commercial structures. Numerous governments are setting up initiatives to support the building sector. It is anticipated that the expansion of commercial building development would offer profitable chances for the sector to prosper in the area, which will favorably affect the market for mechanical explosion proof equipment.

Industries that demand a lot of money and machinery, like aerospace, manufacturing, and defense, use explosion-proof equipment. Therefore, the price of necessary safety equipment in these businesses is very high. As a result, the market for mechanical explosion proof equipment is significantly constrained by high equipment costs.

To know more, read:

The Mechanical Explosion Proof Equipment Market is segmented by Product; the Market is segmented by Connectivity Service; the Market is segmented by Industry:

By Industry (Pharmaceutical, Manufacturing, Marine, Mining, Food Processing and Oil and Gas)

North America dominates the global market for mechanical explosion proof equipment in terms of revenue due to its extensive explosion-proof technologies. The global market for explosion-proof equipment is being significantly influenced by the rising awareness of worker safety and accidents in hazardous working environments. As an illustration, the Organizational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) in the United States and Europe enforces strict occupational health and safety laws and regulations that call for the installation of fire and explosion-proof equipment as well as the use of protective gear for workers who work near arcs and flames. Chemicals, shipbuilding, healthcare, and architecture are Europe’s top industries. Increased economic growth results from the expansion of these sectors and numerous other industrial processes. Additionally, quality and productivity have increased as a result of the widespread adoption of equipment that is explosion-proof in dangerous locations. APAC is the third-largest geographic region after Europe and North America because of the expansion of the explosion-proof equipment market there as a result of government funding in Asian nations. Additionally, there are several oil and gas projects in the Asian region as a result of the industry’s constant growth, which is being fueled by growing demand and investment activities.

Impact of COVID-19 pandemic on the market:

The recent COVID-19 breakout and widespread lockdowns have had an impact on the global market for explosion-proof equipment. The demand for electronics in 2020 is impacted by this. The supply chain was hampered in 2020 by the forced lockdowns brought on by the epidemic, which also changed consumer behavior and destroyed demand. In the long run, however, it is anticipated that demand will return to normal, albeit with a slight hiccup.