Skip to main content

This is a record of my journey as a Muslim. I used to be Catholic and belonged to a missionary organisation. After my conversion, I sat on the board of a Muslim converts' organisation and specialised in da'wah programmes, convert management, interfaith issues and apostasy cases. I am an initiate of a Sufi order. As such, the articles and writings tend to cover these areas.

Divine Light Shines on the Mirror of the Heart

Shaykh ibn ‘Atha’illah as-Sakandari (q.s.) wrote, “How shall Divine Light shine upon a heart whose mirror is stamped with the impressions of Created things?  Or how shall it travel to Allah (s.w.t.) while chained in its lusts?  Or how shall it wish to enter the Presence of Allah (s.w.t.) while uncleansed from the impurity of forgetfulness of Him?  Or how shall it hope to understand subtle secrets while having not repented from its mistakes?”

Imam ibn ‘Abbad ar-Rundi (r.a.) expounded, “It is impossible to bring two mutually exclusive opposites together.  Such as trying to unify movement and stillness or light and darkness.  These things that the author has mentioned are opposites that do not come together.  Thus, the light of faith and certainty illuminating the heart is an opposite of the darkness that overtakes it by relying on material forms and created things.  Likewise, for the traveler to Allah (s.w.t.) to cut off his lower self is opposite to letting his lusts and desires have free reign.

Similarly, entering into the Presence of Allah (s.w.t.) requires that the servant’s internal self be pure and removed from bad traits, which is the opposite of his condition of impurity by not remembering Him; this impurity causes him to be removed and distanced from the Divine.  Finally, understanding subtle spiritual secrets comes about from Divine cognisance, which is the opposite of persisting in disobedience and mistakes.

There is an allusion to this point in His Statement:

... So recognise Allah; for it is Allah Who Teaches you. … (Surah al-Baqarah:282)

Also it has been reported in some ahadits, ‘Whoever acts by what he knows, Allah Makes him inherit knowledge of what he did not know.’”

Imam ibn ‘Abbad ar-Rundi (r.a.) wrote that Imam Yahya ibn Ma’in (r.a.) related that Imam Ahmad ibn Muhammad ibn Hanbal (r.a.) met Shaykh Abu al-Hasan Ahmad ibn Abu Hawari (q.s.) and asked him, “O Ahmad, narrate to me an account that you heard from your shaykh, Abu Sulayman.”

Imam ibn Hanbal (r.a.) then uttered “Subhanallah” in a prolonged fashion without conceit.

Shaykh ibn Abu Hawari (q.s.) then said, “I heard Abu Sulayman saying, ‘When a person’s soul resolves upon leaving sins, it moves about in the metaphysical world and returns to the servant with rare pieces of wisdom without any scholar teaching it any knowledge.’”

Then, Imam ibn Hanbal (r.a.) stood up and sat down three times and said, “I haven’t heard in Islam any narration more wondrous to me than this.”

Imam ibn ‘Abbad ar-Rundi (r.a.) then wrote, “Then, he mentioned the hadits

we mentioned above, ‘Whoever acts by what he knows, Allah Causes him inherit knowledge of what he did not know.”

Imam ibn Hanbal (r.a.) then said to Shaykh ibn Abu Hawari (q.s.), “You’ve spoken the truth and so did your shaykh.”

Because these things are opposites, Shaykh ibn ‘Atha’illah as-Sakandari (q.s.) marvels at the one who believes that they can come together and at the one who craves to attain the ranks of the realised spiritualists while having the ugliest faults.

بِسۡمِ ٱللهِ ٱلرَّحۡمَـٰنِ ٱلرَّحِيمِ     The following was compiled from various sources from amongst the muridun  of Shaykh Ibrahim ibn ‘Abdullah Niyas al-Kawlakhi ( q.s. ).   Shaykh Ibrahim Niyas ( q.s. ), as the name is transliterated here from the Arabic, is more commonly known “Ibrahim Niass”.   It also written as “Ibrahima Niasse” in French, and “Ibrayima Nas” in Wolof.   Formally, he is Shaykh al-Islam  al-Haj Ibrahim ibn al-Haj ‘Abdullah at-Tijani al-Kawlakhi Niyas ( q.s. ) in Arabic.     He was a major leader of the Tijani Sufi order in West Africa.   His followers in the Senegambia region affectionately refer to him in Wolof as “ Baye ”, or “Father”.   He is the founder of the Ibrahimiyyah  branch of the Tijaniyyah .   In Arabic, we designate ourselves as the people of al-Faydhah at-Tijaniyyah , “The Divine Flood of the Tijani”.   In Wolof, the Tijani of Senegal call themselves Talibe Baye , meaning “Disciples of Baye ”.   Outsiders often refer to his disciples as Naseen , w

The Du’a of the Blind Man

بِسۡمِ ٱللهِ ٱلرَّحۡمَـٰنِ ٱلرَّحِيمِ   It is narrated, from a hadits ,  that a blind man approached the Prophet ( s.a.w. ), and asked for a cure from his blindness.   This hadits  is recorded in Jami’ at-Tirmidzi ; Sunan ibn Majah ; Musnad ibn Hanbal ; Mu’jam al-Kabir ,  by Imam Abu Ja‘far Muhammad ibn Jarir ath-Thabari ( r.a. ); and Mustadarak ‘ala Swahihayn ,  by Imam Abu ‘Abdullah Muhammad ibn ‘Abdullah al-Hakim an-Nishaburi ( r.a. ).   The version from Sunan ath-Thabari  has slightly different words but has the same general meaning.     This du’a  is a du’a  for hajat , when there is a need.   It is also a du’a  asking for spiritual sight in this world, for those who are blind to Allah ( s.w.t. ) in this world may be blind to Him in the next.   How can we see His Majesty and be in the Divine Presence when we are blind to His Presence in this world.   One cannot look at the shadow and still see the light.   One cannot look at the world and expect to find Him.     The blind man came

The Benefits of the Verse of 1,000 Dananir

بِسۡمِ ٱللهِ ٱلرَّحۡمَـٰنِ ٱلرَّحِيمِ   We consider this verse:     سُوۡرَةُ الطّلاَق   ... وَمَن يَتَّقِ ٱللَّهَ يَجۡعَل لَّهُ ۥ مَخۡرَجً۬ا (٢) وَيَرۡزُقۡهُ مِنۡ حَيۡثُ لَا يَحۡتَسِبُ‌ۚ وَمَن يَتَوَكَّلۡ عَلَى ٱللَّهِ فَهُوَ حَسۡبُهُ ۥۤ‌ۚ إِنَّ ٱللَّهَ بَـٰلِغُ أَمۡرِهِۦ‌ۚ قَدۡ جَعَلَ ٱللَّهُ لِكُلِّ شَىۡءٍ۬ قَدۡرً۬ا (٣)     … And for those who recognise Allah, He (Ever) Prepares a way out.   And He Provides for him from (sources) he never could imagine.   And if anyone puts his trust in Allah, sufficient is (Allah) for him.   For Allah Will surely Accomplish His Purpose: verily, for all things has Allah Appointed a due proportion. (Surah ath-Thalaq:2-3)     This verse is the affirmation that the one who recites finds sufficiency in Allah ( s.w.t. ) only.   The story behind the verse, is that there was once a poor man working on a ship who received this verse from Khidhr ( a.s. ).   By the constant recitation of it, he became wealthy enough to be a king.   There is no independent veri