Eyewitnesses said the shooter appeared to have been armed with a long gun.

The victims were identified by police as Joshua Barrick, 40; Thomas Elliott, 63; Juliana Farmer, 45; and James Tutt, 64.

Eyewitnesses said the shooter appeared to have been armed with a long gun.

The victims were identified by police as Joshua Barrick, 40; Thomas Elliott, 63; Juliana Farmer, 45; and James Tutt, 64.

LOUISVILLE, Ky. -- Four victims were killed and nine others were injured in a mass shooting at a bank in Louisville, Kentucky, on Monday morning, according to police.

The suspected shooter, 23-year-old Connor Sturgeon, was armed with a rifle when he allegedly carried out a mass shooting at the Old National Bank, where he worked, according to police.

The four slain victims were identified by police as Joshua Barrick, 40; Thomas Elliott, 63; Juliana Farmer, 45; and James Tutt, 64.

This is a breaking news update. A previous version of this report is below.

Four people are dead and at least nine others are injured following a mass shooting at a bank in Louisville, Kentucky, on Monday morning, according to police.

The lone gunman opened fire in the Old National Bank's first-floor conference room at about 8:30 a.m. local time, according to officials.

The suspect had a connection to the bank, possibly a former employee, police said.

Eyewitnesses said the shooter appeared to have been armed with a long gun.

"He just started shooting," Troy Haste told ABC Louisville affiliate WHAS. "Whoever was next to me got shot. Blood is on me from it."

Officers arrived at the Old National Bank within three minutes of being dispatched and found the suspect still firing, Louisville police said.

Officers exchanged gunfire with the suspect who died at the scene, police said. It's not yet clear if the suspect's wounds were self-inflicted, police said.

Two officers and seven civilians were injured in the Louisville shooting, according to the University of Louisville Hospital.

One of those officers, a 26-year-old who just graduated from the academy March 31, is in critical condition, according to police.

At least three patients have already been discharged, according to the hospital.

Three patients remained in critical condition, police said in a news conference Monday.

Those who died were 63, 64, 40 and 57 years old, officials said.

According to preliminary information, this shooting is not believed to have been terror-related, sources told ABC News.

President Joe Biden tweeted Monday, "Once again, our nation mourns after a senseless act of gun violence."

"Jill and I pray for the lives lost and impacted by today's shooting. Too many Americans are paying for the price of inaction with their lives," he wrote. "When will Republicans in Congress act to protect our communities?"

Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear said headed to the scene.

"Please pray for all of the families impacted and for the city of Louisville," he tweeted.

Republican leader and Kentucky Sen. Mitch McConnell, who lives in Louisville, tweeted that he's "devastated" by the news of Monday morning's mass shooting.

"We send our prayers to the victims, their families, and the city of Louisville as we await more information," McConnell tweeted.

His fellow Kentucky senator, Rand Paul, tweeted, "Our hearts break for the families of those lost."

FBI and ATF agents are assisting with the incident.

There have been at least 15 mass shootings in the U. S. in the first 10 days of April, including Monday morning's shooting in Louisville, according to the Gun Violence Archive.

So far this year, the nation has seen at least 146 mass shootings.

The Gun Violence Archive defines a mass shooting as at least four people shot, not including the suspect.

"It feels like every day in this country we are totally consumed by yet another mass shooting. Nowhere else in the developed world do people wake up to this preventable horror every single morning," Kris Brown, president of the Brady Center to Prevent Gun Violence, said in a statement Monday. "Whether it's a bank, a school, a supermarket, or a church, Americans no longer feel safe in their communities. And Americans are increasingly tired of living in fear of being a victim of a mass shooting."

This is a developing story. Please check back for updates.