BOSTON (AP) — Alex Verdugo singled home the winning run with two outs in the 10th inning on a fly ball that barely stayed fair at Fenway Park, giving the Boston Red Sox a 5-4 victory over the Minnesota Twins in a bizarre finish. Umpires needed a few minutes to review Verdugo’s drive, which bounced off the low wall in right field just short of Pesky’s Pole, before officially declaring it a hit and the game over. That sparked a second round of celebrating by the Red Sox, who got 11 strikeouts from starter Chris Sale but little offense until the end. Reese McGuire had just tied it with a two-run single as the Red Sox rallied after allowing two runs in the top of the 10th. Max Kepler homered for Minnesota.

CRESTON — The NIACC baseball team dropped an 8-3 decision at Southwestern on Tuesday afternoon. Southwestern plated four runs in the bottom of the first to set the pace of the game, followed by one in the second and three more in the fifth as they were able to take advantage of six Trojan errors in the contest. NIACC scored single runs in the sixth, seventh and eighth innings. Brock Goelz homered while Bennet McCollow and John Doty each had doubles. NIACC drops to 13-23 overall and 9-10 in the Iowa Community College Athletic Conference and is scheduled to return to action today in a game at Indian Hills.

MASON CITY — The 17th-ranked NIACC softball team pounded out a total of 30 hits as part of their doubleheader sweep of Ellsworth at home on Tuesday afternoon. NIACC won the opener 12-2 in five innings. Brynn Stalberger had a two-hitter for the Trojans in the opener, striking out four. Emily Jones was 4-for-4 with three RBI, while Sydney Toman was 2-for-2 with a homer and three RBI. In the nightcap, Jones picked up the win from the circle, with Stalberger pitching the final two innings of relief in a 15-3 victory. Katy Olive had two homers from the leadoff spot, while the Trojans also had home runs from Jones, Toman, and Shaye Theobald. NIACC has now won 13 straight games and is 30-8 overall and 14-2 in the conference. NIACC travels this weekend to Iowa Lakes for a four-game series Saturday and Sunday.

IOWA CITY — Iowa safety Xavier Nwankpa is ready to take the next step in his career. The former Southeast Polk standout started at strong safety in the Hawkeyes Music City Bowl win over Kentucky and closed his freshman season by returning an interception 52 yards for a touchdown. He was inserted into the starting lineup after Kaevon Merriweather opted out of the bowl game.

He says a year in the program has made him feel more confident.

He is also doing a better job reacting to the offense.

The Hawkeyes close out spring drills Saturday in Kinnick Stadium.

AMES — Iowa State linebacker Zach Lovett says the transition this spring has been a quick one. After appearing in 13 games the past two seasons at Missouri the Melbourne, Florida native transferred to ISU. He had been recruited by the Cyclones while in high school.

Lovett says many of the same coaches involved in his recruiting are still at Iowa State.

Lovett says he started doing research immediately after entering the transfer portal.

The Cyclones close out spring drills on Saturday.

DES MOINES — Olympic champion Hansle Parchment will open his season next week in the 110 meter hurdles at the Drake Relays. Parchment won gold for Jamaica in 2021 in Tokyo and has been a regular at Drake.

Parchment battled injury for much of 2022 and hopes Drake will provide a good start to the new season.

Parchment spent the offseason working with his coach on the technical aspects of his race.

Parchment says he needs better starts to return to contention at the world level.

The Drake Relays are April 25th through the 29th.