Former Roland Garros champion Jelena Ostapenko cruised into the second round at the Porsche Tennis Grand Prix in Stuttgart with a 6-2 6-1 win over 2021 US Open champion Emma Raducanu in just 58 minutes.

Ostapenko set up a second round match against two-time Grand Slam finalist and this year’s Charleston Open champion Ons Jabeur.

Ostakenko did not drop her serve and saved the only break she faced. The Latvian player converted all of her five break points.

“I knew against her the main thing was to step in the court. Of course, I missed some balls but I tried to be aggressive all the time when it was possible. Just try to take the ball early, don’t give her many chances. Finally, I am back on clay, my favourite surface”, said Ostapenko.

Ostapenko won her first title on the WTA Tour at Roland Garros in 2017. In the French capital she beat Sam Stosur, Caroline Wozniaki, Timea Bacsinszky and Simona Halep in three set to become the first Latvian player to win a Grand Slam title.

She followed up her Roland Garros with a quarter final at Wimbledon and her second career title in Seoul. After reaching two semifinals on Chinese soil in Wuhan and Beijing, Ostapenko qualified for the WTA Finals.

Paula Badosa beat Daria Kasatkina 6-1 6-1 in 70 minutes to win the ninth win of her career, and the first in the pats 12 months, against a top 10 player.

Badosa finished with 19 winners to 22 unforced errors. The Spanish player faced just one break point in the first game of the second set and saved it with a forehand winner into the corner. Kasatkina committed 28 winners to 8 unforced errors.

Badosa split with Jorge Garcia last February and is now coached by Eduard Esteve Lobato and Pol Toledo Bague.

“We have known each other since long time ago. They used to play. They are not playing anymore. I just told them and asked them if they could help me on my career, and they know me from long time. We have a good relationship on and off court, and really happy to start with them this journey”, said Badosa.

Badosa fell to world number 31 and required a wild card to enter the Stuttgart main draw. She recently reached the quarter final in Charleston on green clay.

Badosa set up an all-Spanish second round match against qualifier Cristina Busca. The 2021 Indian Wells champion

Former Roland Garros Barbora Krejcikova eased past Liudmila Samsonova 6-2 6-0. Krejcikova avenged her defeat against Samsonova, who had beaten her Czech opponent in their only previous head-to-head match in Abu Dhabi.

Krejcikova saved all seven of the break points she faced to win the first set 6-2. She never faced a break point and won all seven of her seven first-serve points. Krejcikova set up a second round match against this year’s Australian Open champion Aryna Sabalenka.

Sabalenka won two of their previous head-to-head matches against Krejcikova in Indian Wells and Miami.

Brazil’s Beatriz Haddad Maia advanced to the second round after Martina Trevisan was forced to withdraw from the match when she was trailing 7-5 1-1. Trevisan went up a 4-1 lead with a double break in the opening set and held three set points at 5-4. Haddad Maia came back by winning three consecutive game to clinch the first set 7-5. Haddad Maia set up a second round match against reigning Wimbledon and Indian Wells champion Elena Rybakina or Jule Niemeier.