Sony BRAVIA X80L series of smart TVs launched in India with cutting-edge features. The company has launched three models in the lineup, including a 43-inch, 50-inch, and 85-inch display. The lineup starts at Rs 99,900 in India and will go on sale starting April 19. These TVs flaunt an X1 4K HDR Picture Processor, TRILUMINOS Pro display, Dolby Vision, Dolby Atmos, X-Balanced Speakers, and more as headlining features. Read ahead to know the price, availability, and specifications of the newly launched Sony X80L series.

Sony BRAVIA X80L series of smart TVs launched in India with cutting-edge features. The company has launched three models in the lineup, including a 43-inch, 50-inch, and 85-inch display. The lineup starts at Rs 99,900 in India and will go on sale starting April 19. These TVs flaunt an X1 4K HDR Picture Processor, TRILUMINOS Pro display, Dolby Vision, Dolby Atmos, X-Balanced Speakers, and more as headlining features. Read ahead to know the price, availability, and specifications of the newly launched Sony X80L series.

As mentioned, Sony has launched three models in the X80L series – 43-inch, 50-inch, and 85-inch. The base 43-inch model has been priced at Rs 99,900, and you can pick up the 50-inch variant for Rs 1,14,900. Both these models will go on sale in India starting April 19. Interested buyers can purchase them from Sony Centers, major electronic stores, and e-commerce portals in India. Sony is yet to announce the pricing and availability of the top-of-the-line 85-inch model.

Sony has launched KD-43X80L, KD-50X80L, and KD-85X80L TVs in India, with 43-inch, 50-inch, and 85-inch TRILUMINOUS Pro display panels. They offer a screen resolution of 3,840 x 2,160 pixels with HDR10, HLG, and Dolby Vision support. These TVs have 4K HDR Processor X1 and 4K X-Reality PRO, which boost HDR for vividity and upscale low-resolution media close to 4K quality, respectively. There’s also Motionflow XR, which adds additional frames to the original media for a smoother and sharper video rendition. An ambient light sensor optimises the screen brightness based on the room lighting conditions.

As for the audio, these TVs feature 20W X-Balanced speakers designed to offer clear audio and a deeper bass. Sony has also equipped these TVs with Acoustic Auto Calibration and DTS Digital Surround Sound, which detects all objects in the room and optimises the sound quality based on the room layout for an immersive audio experience. Lastly, there’s support for Dolby Atmos sound for more detail, depth, and clarity.

For gaming enthusiasts, Sony has included Auto HDR Tone Mapping, which optimises the HDR settings instantly during the initial setup of PlayStation 5. As a result, users can enjoy true colours and real details even in dark shadows and bright highlights. There’s also an Auto Genre Picture Mode, which switches to the game mode when PS5 is connected and back to the standard mode when watching movies.

These TVs are Android TVs, which means they come with Google Assistant and Play Store to download over 10,000 apps. Sony has pre-loaded Netflix, Prime Video, and YouTube for its users. Other Google features include a kid’s profile, built-in Chromecast, smart home compatibility, and more. Apple users can use AirPlay, HomeKit, and Siri with these TVs for convenience. A simple remote lets users control all connected devices to the TV. Another exciting feature is the BRAVIA Cam, which enables gesture control, proximity alerts to set a safe viewing distance and make video calls on your TV.

Connectivity options include dual-band Wi-Fi, Bluetooth 4.2 HID, RF, Component Video Input, four HDMI ports, HDCP2.3, HDMI 2.1 with eARC, two USB ports, and a 3.5 mm audio jack.