UN high seas treaty expected to be adopted in June

UN high seas treaty expected to be adopted in June

The United Nations has set dates in June to formally adopt the world body's historic high seas treaty, following a General Assembly resolution agreed upon Tuesday.

The text of the high seas treaty was finally agreed in March, after 15 years of discussions and four years of formal negotiations. The landmark accord would establish a legal framework to extend swaths of environmental protections to international waters around the globe.

But it has yet to be formally adopted, needing first to be scrutinized by legal experts and translated across the UN's six working languages.

The meeting to adopt the treaty is "tentatively" set for June 19 and 20.

After its adoption, individual member states then would be able to ratify it.

"We're excited to see the continued positive momentum for this new treaty," Nichola Clark, of the nonprofit Pew Charitable Trusts, told AFP.

"There are a few other steps that have to be taken before the negotiations can formally close -- and this resolution would help us do just that by setting up a time for the treaty to be officially adopted."

Currently, almost all protected marine areas lie within individual countries' national territorial waters. The treaty would allow protections to be extended outside of exclusive economic zones (EEZ), which extend to a maximum of 200 nautical miles (370 km) from coastlines.

More than 60 percent of the ocean falls outside EEZs.

The treaty would also require environmental impact studies for activities like deep-sea mining.

It is crucial to protect the high seas, scientists say, given their immense biodiversity and important role in generating oxygen and absorbing carbon dioxide. As things stand, the waters are at risk from pollution, global warming and overfishing.

The treaty will go into effect once at least 60 countries ratify it.

It's been said that a rug can really tie a room together. In a similar fashion, Manoochehr Shirzaei and his research team are hoping that weaving together millions of data points into terrain-covering, digital maps can help connect the realities of sinking landscapes to the overall impact of climate change.

"It's like a carpet over the desert," Shirzaei, associate professor of radar remote sensing engineering and environmental security, said of a recent projection of land in Arizona. "You can clea ...  read more

Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.

Biden to hold first meeting with Colombia's leftist president

UAE and China promise Pakistan $1.3 bln to get IMF deal on track

China official visits Nicaragua to launch housing initiative

Nicaragua breaks ground on housing construction with aid from China

NASA satellite's elusive green lasers spotted at work

Fungi makes meal of hard-to-recycle plastic: new study

Data can now be processed at the speed of light

Google selects SpaceChain into its Startups Program

El Nino and +IOD expected to severely impact global weather in coming months

Bangladeshis pray for rain as temperatures soar

Water, water everywhere: Wet winter boosts California's reservoirs

Critical observations of sinking coasts

Revealing invisible Himalaya glacier loss

Snowball Earth might have been a slushball

Ice sheets can collapse faster than previously thought possible

The ice in Antarctica has melted before

'Really hard' -- the life of an Amazon Brazil nut harvester

Spain vows to block farming near threatened wetlands

Historic drought adds to Argentina's economic woes

Quake hit one-fifth of Turkey's food production: UN

Tongan volcanic explosion in 2022 was largest natural explosion in a century

'Flash drought' frequency increasing due to climate change: study

Cyclone hits Australia bringing 'record-breaking' wind speeds

Earthquake strikes off Canada's west coast

Calm returns to Ethiopian region hit by protests

Climate focus shouldn't 'dilute' Africa development needs: World Bank official

At least 56 civilians killed as Sudan battles rage for second day in capital

Germany vows further support for Sahel after Mali exit

New evidence pushes open habitats in Africa back by 10 million years

A new peptide may hold potential as an Alzheimer's treatment

Composition of joint lubricant potential culprit behind osteoarthritis

What the Jetsons got right and wrong about the future of work

The content herein, unless otherwise known to be public domain, are Copyright 1995-2023 -  Space Media Network . All websites are published in Australia and are solely subject to Australian law and governed by Fair Use principals for news reporting and research purposes. AFP, UPI and IANS news wire stories are copyright Agence France-Presse, United Press International and Indo-Asia News Service. ESA news reports are copyright European Space Agency. All NASA sourced material is public domain. Additional copyrights may apply in whole or part to other bona fide parties. All articles labeled "by Staff Writers" include reports supplied to Space Media Network by industry news wires, PR agencies, corporate press officers and the like. Such articles are individually curated and edited by Space Media Network staff on the basis of the report's information value to our industry and professional readership. Advertising does not imply endorsement, agreement or approval of any opinions, statements or information provided by Space Media Network on any Web page published or hosted by Space Media Network.  Our advertisers use various cookies and the like to deliver the best ad banner available at one time. All network advertising suppliers have GDPR policies (Legitimate Interest) that conform with EU regulations for data collection. By using our websites you consent to cookie based advertising. If you do not agree with this then you must stop using the websites from May 25, 2018.  Privacy Statement . Additional information can be found here at  About Us .