We’ve seen our fair share of twinning moments in Bravo fashion history over the years, from Kandi Burruss and Dorit Kemsley’s black-and-white Balmain sets to Tinsley Mortimer and Toya Bush-Harris’ matching frocks at BravoCon.

One Bravo OG, Kyle Richards, has also had more than one outfit déjà vu — most notably back in 2020 when she and Lisa Rinna rocked the same black-and-white polka-dot dress by Rotate.

More recently, The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills cast member wore the Red Bandeau Crepe Midi Dress by Self-Portrait ($555), featuring sparkling crystal trim around the bust and sheer mesh in the center of the chest.

The style, which she paired with silver peep-toe platforms by Saint Laurent ($1,150) in a March 25 Instagram, caught our eye as we recalled seeing it somewhere before: on Margaret Josephs.

Back in December, The Real Housewives of New Jersey cast member shared a photo via Instagram from an event she did with Marysol Patton and Ramona Singer, and she stood between the two women in the same bright red dress.

“The jingle bells on tour,” Margaret quipped in her caption. “Thank you [The Studio at Mizner Park] for having us opening night, and to everyone who came out to see us!!” She added the hashtag “holiday season.”

While Kyle paired her dress with a half-up ’do of voluminous curls, Margaret opted for a chic platinum bob over the holidays, also wearing clear heels for the occasion.

In addition to having an unintentional twin moment with Margaret, Kyle has been pretty keen on wearing sexy dresses highlighted with crystal embellishments lately.

Taking to her Instagram Stories on March 8, the mom of four showed off a black minidress by AREA ($795) with sparkling crystal-embellished straps that went over her shoulders and down across her chest, joining at a larger embellishment at the center.

Kyle styled the dress with a dazzling silver bag from Cult Gaia ($428) and the same Saint Laurent platforms she wore with the aforementioned red dress.

The California native went on to share another look at her sizzling style in a photo taken with Dorit, Garcelle Beauvais, Sutton Stracke, and Crystal Kung Minkoff in Las Vegas. “Girls trips are always a gamble,” she quipped in the caption.