REBEKAH Vardy has trademarked the phrase “Wagatha Christie” in a bid to stop others cashing in.

It is the first time the footie Wag has had a legal win in the saga since she lost her High Court libel battle against arch rival Coleen Rooney last year.

She has won the rights to the phrase which was first coined in October 2019 after Coleen accused Becky of selling stories about her.

Becky, 41, used a friend’s company, London Entertainment Inc Ltd, to quietly apply for the trademark eight months ago, after the libel battle decision went against her.

The move means anyone wishing to use the phrase commercially will have to get her permission — and pay her if she allows it.

The trademark covers everything from broadcasting and clothing to cosmetics and drinks.

Pals said Becky — married to Leicester City’s Jamie Vardy — wanted to “take back control” over the situation, which left her forced to pay 90 per cent of Coleen’s legal fees, which could be up to £1.5million.

A source said: “This trademark is Becky’s two fingers to Coleen and all the misery associated with ‘Wagatha Christie’. Becky is shrewd and knew people would try to cash in on the phrase.

“She now owns the UK trademark and would consider expanding it to other territories if she thought it was needed.

“If someone wants to print the logo on a mug, for example, they would be infringing the trademark if they didn’t ask permission.

"Or if someone wanted to use the phrase to promote a documentary or a film, they would have to ask to use it as they would be exploiting the phrase for monetary gain.

“It is a legal grey area in some respects, however, and will be done on a case-by-case basis.”

The saga began when Coleen tweeted in 2019, accusing Becky, of selling stories about her and ex-England football star husband Wayne.

Coleen had planted false tales in online accounts which only Mrs Vardy or her representatives could see.

Her sleuthing prompted comedian Dan Atkinson to tweet “Coleen Rooney: Wagatha Christie”, 45 minutes later.

The row went on to be made into a West End musical and a Channel 4 drama.

The BBC also made a documentary about the case and the fallout from it.

Coleen, 37, has revealed she is working with Disney+ on a documentary regarding the trial. The name of that film is still under wraps.

Becky has always denied selling Coleen’s stories to the Press.

She told TalkTV: “I will say until I’m blue in the face — I didn’t do it.”