MANILA, Philippines — Tropical Cyclone Wind Signal No. 1 is now raised over 11 provinces, the Philippine Atmospheric, Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration (Pagasa) said on Wednesday afternoon, as Tropical Depression Amang traverses the coastal waters of Caramoan in Camarines Sur province.

In its 2 p.m. cyclone bulletin, Pagasa said Amang maintained its maximum sustained winds of 45 kilometers per hour (kph) near the center and gustiness of up to 55 kph as it moved north-northwestward at 10 kph.

“Amang is forecast to track generally northwestward in the next 12 hours and is expected to pass over the eastern localities in Camarines Sur, Lamon Bay, and Quezon (with the possibility of passing near or over Polillo Islands),” the state weather service disclosed.

“Considering the weak and disorganized nature of this depression, considerable changes in the track forecast of succeeding bulletins are not ruled out,” it added.

Pope wants light shed on 40-year-old mystery of missing Vatican girl

Pagasa likewise said Amang “is forecast to weaken into a low-pressure area by tomorrow (April 13), possibly earlier, due to the combined effects of land interaction, dry air intrusion, and increasing vertical wind shear.”

Below is the list of provinces and areas under Tropical Cyclone Wind Signal No. 1 as of 2 p.m., April 12:

Pagasa further notified the public that moderate to rough sea conditions are expected over the eastern and southern seaboards of Southern Luzon and the eastern seaboard of Central Luzon amid Amang.

“Mariners of small seacrafts are advised to take precautionary measures when venturing out to sea and, if possible, avoid navigating in these conditions,” it said.

READ: PPA: Sea trips return at Western Samar; still suspended at Northern Samar ports

Meanwhile, the Office of Civil Defense-National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council (NDRRMC) activated its Emergency Preparedness and Response protocols in areas under Signal No. 1.

The NDRRMC considered Calabarzon and Regions 5 (Bicol) and 8 (Eastern Visayas) as “high risk”; National Capital Region or Metro Manila, Cordillera Administrative Region, Regions 1, 2, and 3, and Mimaropa as “moderate risk”; Caraga as “low risk”; and other regions as “standby” or “no to very low risk.”

Tourists told to postpone trips in areas affected by TD Amang