Click here to view original web page at alexablockchain.com

United States, April 18, 2023 / AlexaBlockchain/ – Alpha Trend, a Web3 technology company, has announced the launch of a new platform aimed at supporting sports digital collectibles for the Name, Image Likeness (NIL) market. The platform will enable student-athletes to create and promote their own digital collectibles, leveraging blockchain and Web3 technology to expand revenue opportunities and enhance their brand value.

Partnering with Pokes with a Purpose (PWAP), an organization set up to boost Oklahoma State University student-athletes through the NIL program, Alpha Trend will create one-of-a-kind digital collectibles featuring current Oklahoma State University athletes and OSU legends.

“The value of Web3 for a sports digital collectible holder lies in the ability to verify ownership, track authenticity, and transfer ownership securely while creating recurring revenue opportunities,” said Dip Majumder, CEO of Alpha Trend. “Think of these as the new baseball cards, but with recurring proceeds from each trade going to the student-athletes themselves.”

Unlike other platforms that license image-use rights, Alpha Trend’s launchpad empowers NILs and athletes to take ownership of the NFT creation and promotion process, while already having rights for logo and image usage. Sports fans can easily set up wallets and use dollar payments to collect images of their favorite players, interact with players, and have a say in the upcoming products.

PWAP is in the process of launching the first collections and is inviting OSU fans, as well as the wider Web3 community, to participate in shaping the collection and its benefits. The organization is a non-profit organized for the benefit of all Oklahoma State University athletes but is not a part of the university.

Alpha Trend is an AI and analytics technology company that helps businesses create new revenue streams by launching and accelerating their journey within Web3, an industry poised to reach $5.2 Billion by 2030. The launch of OK State NFTs is another step forward in the company’s mission to empower businesses and organizations to create a more transparent and engaging relationship with their customers, fanbases, and communities using AI, blockchain, and digital currency.

Submit Your Blockchain and Crypto Press Release here.