Most of us, when thinking about Tupac Shakur, tend to view the late rap artist in black or white terms. For some, he was a violent gangster rapper; for others, he was a righteous, misunderstood prophet. Yet a new docuseries, Dear Mama: The Saga of Afeni and Tupac Shakur, makes sense of the totality of the artist, who was murdered in 1996, by looking at his life through a novel, unexpected lens: the relationship between Tupac and his mother, Afeni Shakur.

“Being raised by a single mother that was an activist myself,” Dear Mama’s writer, director, and executive producer Allen Hughes tells Shondaland, “I knew I could find him through her. And I knew a dual narrative would be more of a nuanced, complex portrait of him. We’ve never seen a complex piece examining him — because we had the advantage of time — either.”

Debuting on FX on April 21, the five-episode series uses archival footage, interviews with relatives and famous friends, plus analysis from thought leaders to unpack what is one of the most complex mother-son relationships in the history of entertainment. One of the prominent themes to emerge in the series is how Tupac Shakur was a lot of things: sensitive and sweet, according to people who knew him, but also vengeful and cruel; a playboy and a mama’s boy; and an activist and self-described revolutionary but also, particularly in the latter part of his mere 25 years on Earth, steeped in gangster culture and awash in the criminal underworld.

Few people know just how complex and complicated Tupac was better than Hughes, who was famously on the receiving end of Tupac’s fury in 1993. That’s when Hughes fired Tupac from the set of Menace II Society, the film Hughes made with his twin brother, Albert Hughes, which resulted in Tupac having Allen beaten up by 10 members of the Crips street gang. Allen rarely addressed that incident, publicly or privately, until Dear Mama; there’s a portion in one of the episodes where Allen sits down to discuss it with clarity and an empathy for Tupac he wasn’t able to have 30 years ago.

“I only told the story one time,” he says. “And I only dealt with it while making this. I didn’t know even up until fairly recently how cathartic it was [to make this].”

Even prior to their falling-out, Hughes says, he could see that Tupac was on a collision course into a disastrous end. Years prior, Hughes had directed some of Tupac’s videos, including “Brenda’s Got a Baby,” one of many Tupac songs that showed his penchant for thoughtful, feminist fare, and “Dear Mama,” the ode to Afeni that addresses her strength and her woes and drug addiction. “I just couldn’t make sense of [his] last year,” Hughes says. “I just couldn’t. Where were the Dear Mamas and Brenda’s Got a Babys? All that poignant, reflective stuff. I just couldn’t make sense of prison and what happened. My personal skirmish with him pales in comparison to what he came to represent. [I was] searching for the meaning of it.”

Indeed, Hughes says he didn’t even want to do Dear Mama initially. He was asked by the family to helm the project, and after turning it down at first, he says that the

late Afeni “spoke to him” while he was on one of the meditative hikes he often takes through the mountains in California. Thus began a four-year odyssey to complete this series and offer up a never-before-seen analysis of the artist’s life and times through the prism of his mother.

Dear Mama makes many, many poignant points in looking at Tupac’s and Afeni’s lives. Afeni was born as Alice Faye Williams in North Carolina, and she and her sister, Gloria — who offers up much commentary and perspective in Dear Mama — moved to the Bronx as tweens with their mother, in part for better opportunities and also to escape their abusive father. Theirs was a life of poverty and strain; by high school, Afeni had dropped out and soon became immersed in the “radical” politics of the 1960s, eventually becoming active in the Black Panther Party. She took the name Afeni, became a leader in the party, and raised Tupac according to its values: liberation of all oppressed people, deep respect for women, and understanding how capitalism and racism corrupted society.

Yet, Afeni and her son were also human beings, susceptible to pain and mistakes and bad decisions. As Dear Mama shows, her drug addiction and imprisonment, combined with their living in poverty and Tupac not knowing his father, were all parts of a toxic brew that formed his identity. He was, as the doc is keen to point out, a Gemini; there were literally two wholly separate people inside him.

“What he was born into, and what he was equipped with, was so much,” Allen says. “But there was stuff he wasn’t equipped with as well. If you look at the confluence of hip-hop, daddy issues, and then being the son of a woman that was suffering from what they call ‘postcolonial stress syndrome,’ you have the powder keg.”

Tupac, as revealed in Dear Mama, really never got in trouble with the law until after he became famous. It shows how, in high school, he was a thoughtful, intellectual, artsy kid who succumbed to peer pressure to put on a macho act that followed him until his death; it shows how a brutal beating by cops for jaywalking, just as he was beginning to see success, lit a match that sparked an outlaw personality; it shows how accusations of sexual assault and a prison sentence turned him into a type of monster. It’s a story that’s as tragic as it is beautiful and insightful (we learn, for example, that Afeni’s trailblazing work protesting NYC hospitals helped lead to the patients’ bill of rights). It is a work that helps everyone who views it reconcile the disparate, sometimes unsavory parts of an artist gone too soon — especially Allen.

“There’s so much when it comes to the mythology versus the truth,” Allen says. “When you see what really happened and what all went into it, you’re like, ‘Oh, it wasn’t as simple as I thought it was.’ We’re going to learn all we need to learn through her journey.”

Malcolm Venable is a Senior Staff Writer at Shondaland. Follow him on Twitter @malcolmvenable.

Get Shondaland directly in your inbox: SUBSCRIBE TODAY