Representatives of several organizations were at the Homeless Coalition meeting. | Catherine Stachowiak/Kern Valley Sun

Representatives of several organizations were at the Homeless Coalition meeting. | Catherine Stachowiak/Kern Valley Sun

At a recent Kern River Valley Homeless Coalition meeting, a Clinica Sierra Vista representative showed a video revealing what the organization does to bring medical services to Kern County's homeless individuals through their street medicine team.

"Part of our plan is to move up into this area to provide health care to our homeless community," said Cecilia Scott, program administrator for special populations division, Clinica Sierra Vista.

The coalition is assisting Clinica Sierra Vista with information to make a transition into serving the Kern Valley.

"We have quite a few guests here today, passionate about serving the underserved of the Kern River Valley," Karen Zuber, who founded the Homeless Coalition with her husband Gary Zuber, said.

Representatives of several organizations attended the Homeless Coalition meeting, including Kern River Health Center in Wofford Heights, Flood Ministries, City Serve, Kern River Valley Senior Citizens and Knuckle Up soup kitchen, which hosts these meetings at The Ark.

Jackylyn Wallace of College Community Services Outreach told the Homeless Coalition that she is hosting a Family and Homeless Resource Faire, May 22, at the Lake Isabella Senior Center from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. John Blythe, a member of the Kern Valley Healthcare District's board of directors, is joining in this endeavor.

They're hoping Aging Adult Services and Department of Human Services, College Community Services for Mental Health, as well as a number of other organizations will be present at the faire to educate the public on resource services available in the valley.

"I was hoping that we could maybe try to get the hospital involved," Wallace said, although she admitted that the help of the Kern Valley Hospital has not yet been formalized.

Blythe told the Kern Valley Sun that he attended the Homeless Coalition meeting, not as a board member, but as a concerned citizen. However, he has been reporting some of the issues with homeless individuals and mental health/drug addiction at Kern Valley Health District board meetings.

He also said in an earlier interview that the hospital wants to provide more mental and behavioral health services for locals that could assist veterans and homeless individuals.