School choice has continued to receive increased attention in Texas despite suffering a loss in the

. The House Committee on Public Education had its opportunity to hash out important details and hear public testimony on their school choice plan.

A variety of school choice-related bills were heard, including House Bill (HB) 4340 by Rep. James Frank (R-Wichita Falls) which would establish state education savings accounts (ESA), and Rep Brian Harrison’s (R-Midlothian) HB 4807 which creates a “Texas Parental Empowerment Program.”

Both bills involve taking from the general revenue fund for children to receive public funds for their school of choice. The comptroller would manage the funding and create a pre-approved list of education providers and vendors as well as a process of approval for organizations to attain a certification as a Certified Educational Assistance Organization (CEAO).

Similarly to the Senate’s school choice plan, Frank’s plan makes children eligible for the ESA proposal if they are enrolled in a public school or have been enrolled during the preceding year.  Children entering Pre-K and kindergarten would automatically qualify. Harrison’s plan establishes that any student who is eligible to enroll in public school is qualified for his program.

Prior to public testimony, Frank had the opportunity to lay out his bill. “Every child is different,” he said, “It’s good for parents, it’s good for kids, it’s good for schools.”

Frank pointed to the school choice program in Florida, where many parents choose to keep their children in the public school system but the program provides options to the “few families that need access.”

Frank emphasized that “everyone benefits from children being educated but that means all children, public school children, private school children, homeschool children.” He also highlighted that the money in the ESAs would not go to parents, but rather directly from the ESA to the educational provider.

“[The money] doesn’t belong to the school. The purpose of it is the kid. The purpose is not the school. The purpose is to educate children,” Frank said.

The concerns around funding for school choice came to a head last week during the House budget vote, where a controversial amendment was passed that would prohibit state dollars from being used in a voucher or ESA program.

The hearing lasted long into the night with well over 12 hours of testimony and over 200 people who signed up to give testimony. Parents, educators, and advocates all came out to voice their opinion on ESAs and school choice.

Harrison and Corey DeAngelis, a national school choice advocate, had an extensive back-and-forth about the merits of implementing school choice legislation.

“When parents get education freedom, they can improve education outcomes for students. It strengthens schools’ abilities to focus on the classroom, it empowers parents, and it can benefit teachers,” said Harrison.

DeAngelis agreed, asserting that school choice offers safer environments for parents who value safety. He said he has conducted studies on the positive correlation of long-term crime reduction with school choice.

“Parents are having this groundswell of support for school choice more recently because they are seeing these non-academic benefits of school choice when picking a school that aligns with your values,” said DeAngelis.

Bishop Michael Olson spoke in support, stating, “I want parents who are participants in our community that want for their children to have better opportunities.” He continued that better access to education opportunities will help people in low-income areas rise out of their situation.

One supporter gave testimony about how expanding available options like “microschooling” would meet the specialized needs of parents and their children. Microschooling is a kind of homeschooling wherein classes are taught by a private tutor and families network together on the education and curriculum options that the instructor offers.

Two testimonials in support, one from Hera Varmah of the American Federation of Children and another from Patrick Gibbons of Step Up For Students, spoke about how school choice in Florida has seen positive outcomes for teachers, parents, and students.

Many people echoed concerns about the accountability of funding and diverting funds from public schools.

Arati Singh of Austin ISD spoke of public education already being “underfunded and under-supported for years.” She asked legislators to vote no on all voucher and ESA proposals.

William Jones, a trustee of Pastors for Texas Children, said he opposes HB 4340 because “public taxpayer funds should go only to public schools that benefit all, not to private schools that benefit only a privileged few.”

Gov. Greg Abbott has made ESA programs his preferred school choice option and added it to his emergency items this session.

The bills were left pending in committee and are expected to see an upcoming vote.