SEATTLE (AP) — Willy Adames drove in the go-ahead run for Milwaukee in the top of the 11th inning and the Brewers defeated the Seattle Mariners on Tuesday night, 6-5.

Joey Weimer scored on Adames’ RBI groundout to shortstop against Mariners reliever Justin Topa (0-1). Adames finished the night with two hits and three RBI, with a run scoring double in the third and a solo homer in the sixth.

Christian Yelich hit a leadoff home run against Mariners starter Logan Gilbert, and made it 2-0 with an RBI single in the top of the third. Yelich then scored on Adames’ double to push the Milwaukee lead to three.

Seattle erased the deficit with a four run bottom of the third, as Cal Raleigh hit a two run double, Teoscar Hernández hit a sacrifice fly, and Tommy La Stella blooped an RBI single into left field to put the Mariners ahead before Adames tied it again in the sixth.

Gilbert allowed five hits and four earned runs over six innings, while striking out eight. Colin Rea allowed four runs over five innings for Milwaukee, with two walks and two strikeouts.

Garrett Mitchell scored in the 10th to give the Brewers the lead, but Ty France tied it back up the next inning with a sacrifice fly.

Bryse Wilson (1-0) got the win for Milwaukee.

Mariners: INF/OF Dylan Moore (oblique) began a rehab assignment Tuesday at Single-A Everett. … OF Taylor Trammell (hand) made his season debut at Triple-A Tacoma. … RHP Andrés Muñoz (shoulder) threw a bullpen session and will go on a rehab assignment soon.

Milwaukee: Claimed RHP J. B. Bukauskas off waivers from Seattle, and assigned him to Triple-A Nashville.

LHP Eric Lauer will start Wednesday for Milwaukee. He is 2-1 with a 5.28 ERA through three starts. LHP Marco Gonzales returns for Seattle, after giving up six hits and one earned run over 5 ⅔ innings in his last start on April 8.

Copyright                         © 2023 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, written or redistributed.