Frustrated families impacted by the collapse of building company Porter Davis are stepping up calls for state and federal governments to end their nightmare.

The home builder’s customers in Victoria will on Sunday stage a protest on the steps of Victoria’s parliament in a show of solidarity.

They want affected families to be given financial and legal assistance to help them navigate their next steps.

“Regulatory failings have allowed builders to take money without issuing the required insurance,” the organisers said in a statement.

“We are desperately calling on the Victorian government to do what matters and support victims.”

Organiser Eric Poon says his life has been up-ended since the company went into liquidation last month, impacting about 1700 builds in Victoria and Queensland.

The Melbourne resident says he has become anxious and stressed as his family faces paying both a mortgage with rising interest rates and rent, while having no idea if their dream house will ever be built.

“We want Porter Davis to take responsibility for their actions and ensure that families who have invested in their homes receive proper compensation and support,” Mr Poon told AAP.

“I find myself checking my phone hoping for updates from the liquidator and the government, yet there is nothing. It feels like a never-ending nightmare.”

Mr Poon says he is one of the Porter Davis customers without insurance as he fell into a gap between paying the deposit and waiting for their permit on his Lilydale home in outer Melbourne to be obtained.

He said many customers have been told they may not get their deposits back and are struggling to get clarity on whether they can hire third-party builders to continue with works.

“Our group consists of around 200 families who have collectively paid $5.5 million in deposits,” Mr Poon said.

“While this amount may seem insignificant to the government, it represents years of savings for ordinary people like us.”

Liquidators Grant Thornton confirmed on Friday that more than 80 builders have applied to complete the unfinished Porter Davis homes, with at least 15 having the scale and capability to do the work.

“Customers are not obliged to engage one of these builders to complete their home build, however you may consider contacting one of these builders directly to discuss how they can assist you,” the liquidators told customers in a letter.

Premier Daniel Andrews has stood by a refusal to bail out the company and the Victorian Building Authority is investigating whether Porter Davis may have breached any laws.

Protest organisers say they will continue to stage demonstrations until governments step in.

A federal government spokeswoman said the Commonwealth was monitoring the situation but consumer safeguards only existed at a state level.