We’ve faced a massive security attack head on! As too have you - our Partners, our product resellers, our extension of the 3CX brand. And yet despite this, you’ve stood faithfully, shoulder to shoulder with 3CX - facing what we face. Your support has spoken louder than any words ever could. Now it’s our turn to reply. We hope our actions speak as loudly as yours.

We want to proactively and measurably say thank you. Here’s how!

* First off there’s cashback of 15% for all 2023 sales.

* Extension of the expiration dates for all paid subscriptions by 3 months.

* Lastly, we’ve extended our 3CX 4SC FREE for all until the end of 2023.

Continue reading for more details on each substantial offer that - in monetary terms - is worth millions!

Balancing reward for your loyalty, with the reality of the impact on your business following the 3CX cyber security attack, we will at the end of 2023 be giving you 15% cash back. In practical terms, at the end of this year credit will be added to your 3CX Partner account equal to 15% of your 2023 revenue, as cash towards any future license purchases.

To demonstrate just how much we’ve appreciated your support, and at the same time acknowledging the challenges ahead, we’re lowering the Partner revenue quota for 2023. Lower targets equal easier promotion, equal more benefits unlocked as well as higher margins more quickly. Although targets for Bronze Partner level remain at 1,000, Partner levels achieved by the end of 2023, will be secured throughout 2024 also. Here’s how this looks at a glance:

In the first days of the attack we wanted to show a token of our thanks. It was an immediate response to an immediate danger. We’ve expanded this further to demonstrate our ongoing awareness of the scale of the attack and its knock on effect. All 4 SC FREE subscriptions, including both the deadline to register them correctly, and the number to be held per partner level, will be extended until 31st December, 2023.

To wrap up - and as you’re already aware - the fourth of our offers extends all paid subscriptions by a generous 3 months.

Without doubt we’re navigating in unprecedented times for 3CX and with you our Partners. However, we remain clear in our goals and commitments. Our investment in the appointment of Mandiant - one of the most visible and respected companies in the cybersecurity ecosystem - indicates our ongoing commitment to get to the very heart of the matter. It’s also about using all of the information that the ongoing investigation will reveal, to strengthen our policies, practices, and technology to further protect against future attacks. In a reseller ecosystem it’s an indirect investment on your behalf too. Beyond this setback, armed with new insights, the future for 3CX remains as bright - if not brighter - as it always was.

I'll be releasing a follow up statement in the next few days providing more insight on what happened and what we’re doing about it. Hit the follow button on Twitter and LinkedIn for announcements and blog updates. Stay up to date in this ongoing investigation via our RSS feed. Join the conversation in our dedicated help forum.