Membership Collective Group (NYSE:MCG – Get Rating) and Earthworks Entertainment (OTCMKTS:EWKS – Get Rating) are both computer and technology companies, but which is the better business? We will contrast the two businesses based on the strength of their institutional ownership, analyst recommendations, dividends, earnings, profitability, risk and valuation.

68.0% of Membership Collective Group shares are held by institutional investors. 73.0% of Membership Collective Group shares are held by company insiders. Strong institutional ownership is an indication that hedge funds, endowments and large money managers believe a company will outperform the market over the long term.

This is a summary of recent ratings for Membership Collective Group and Earthworks Entertainment, as reported by MarketBeat.com.

Membership Collective Group currently has a consensus price target of $7.07, indicating a potential upside of 5.39%.

Membership Collective Group has a beta of 1.23, meaning that its stock price is 23% more volatile than the S&P 500. Comparatively, Earthworks Entertainment has a beta of -0.31, meaning that its stock price is 131% less volatile than the S&P 500.

This table compares Membership Collective Group and Earthworks Entertainment’s net margins, return on equity and return on assets.

This table compares Membership Collective Group and Earthworks Entertainment’s gross revenue, earnings per share (EPS) and valuation.

Earthworks Entertainment has lower revenue, but higher earnings than Membership Collective Group.

Membership Collective Group beats Earthworks Entertainment on 5 of the 8 factors compared between the two stocks.

Membership Collective Group Inc. operates a global membership platform of physical and digital spaces that connects members worldwide. The company's members use the MCG platform to work and socialize, connect, create, and have fun. As of January 2, 2022, it served approximately 155,800 members through a portfolio of 33 Soho Houses, 9 Soho Works clubs, The Ned in London, Soho Home, and Scorpios Beach Club in Mykonos, as well as digital channels. The company was founded in 1995 and is headquartered in New York, New York.

Earthworks Entertainment, Inc. engages in the production and development of film, video and motion pictures. The company was founded in 1986 is headquartered in Dallas, TX.

Receive News & Ratings for Membership Collective Group Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Membership Collective Group and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter.