(MENAFN- Ameliorate Digital Consultancy)

The sales of date sugar are likely to exceeded  US$ 2,000 Mn  in 2022. Date sugars' antibacterial properties along with it being a great substitute for cane sugar is driving the demand for the same.

In addition, date sugar is widely being used in manufacturing desserts and sauces. This, in turn, has increased the sales of date sugar . Thus, the date sugar is expected to accumulate  US$ 2960 Mn  by registering a CAGR of  4%  in the assessment period 2022-2032.   Get Free Sample Report To Grow Your Profit Margin:

In 2018, Bob's Red Mill Natural Foods, Date Lady, Now Foods and Glory Bee together accounted for over three-fourth of Tier 1 players' revenue. Mostly the date sugar business is owned privately and some are owned by the families. Some of the key companies including Bob's Red Mill Natural Foods and Barry Farms also offer date sugar online, through which they can track the demands of the customer.

Date sugar gas a good market in US & Canada as a great option for cane sugar. It is used in various dishes as an alternative for cane sugar. This is the reason of increasing in the demand of date sugar. It is not only use for house hold purposes but also in the food and beverage industry. It is immunity-boosting agent and hold antioxidant properties. Date sugar is expected to possess around more than  45%  market share throughout North America.

The sales of date sugar are likely to exceeded  US$ 2,000 Mn  in 2022.   The global growth rate in 2022-2023 is mostly to be 4% and the growth rate of middle east & Africa is 5% CAGR.   Date syrups are expected to garner a market value of US$ 50 Mn in the assessment period.      The consumer is shifting from cane sugar as a sweetener to substitutes such as stevia, coconut sugar, monk fruit sugar and date sugar which can result as growth in the market.   Availability of dates in Middle East and Africa along with demand from North America is positively influencing the sales of date sugar.      Date sugar can be proved on the expensive as compare to other substitutes.

Date Lady is a key player in the date sugar industry. The company offers gluten free date sugar and is focusing on expanding their product range that would utilize date sugar as a key ingredient.        By End Use :   Date Sugar for Industrial Consumption   Date Sugar for Food Production        By Sales Channel :      To Expand Your Verticals, Get Full Access of This Report   :

What is the projected value of the Date Sugar factors Industry in 2022?   At what rate will the global Date Sugar factors market size grow until 2032?   Which are the factors hampering the growth of Date Sugar factors?   Which region is expected to lead in the global Date Sugar factors market By 2032?   Which are the factors driving the Date Sugar factors Industry during the forecast period?   What is the expected market value of the Date Sugar factors market during the forecast period?      APAC (Japan, China, South Korea, Australia, India, and the rest of APAC; the rest of APAC is further segmented into Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia, Thailand, New Zealand, Vietnam, and Sri Lanka)   Europe (Germany, UK, France, Spain, Italy, Russia, Rest of Europe; Rest of Europe is further segmented into Belgium, Denmark, Austria, Norway, Sweden, Netherlands, Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, and Romania)     For More Insights of Fact. MR Trending Report:-