There’s data in everything we do, and its presence doesn’t look like it will be waning anytime soon. From suggested streaming content and product recommendations, our data follows us like a shadow—and businesses are ready to collect, search, and analyze it to make smarter company decisions backed by the evidence it provides.

Likewise, master’s degree programs in business analytics are continuing to become more popular, as indicated by the nearly 10% year-over-year enrollment growth among schools on Fortune’s ranking of the best online master’s in business analytics (MSBA). And, in fact, the online master’s in business analytics program is the “most popular” online degree offered at Syracuse’s business school, says Don Harter, director of business analytics at Syracuse University.

“Analytics tends to be extremely fast-growing. There are not enough students or employees trained in these areas at this time, and so it’s a rapidly growing area with great opportunity,” Harter tells Fortune. “As a result, many of the career changers are looking for an opportunity to do something new, innovative, and with great growth potential.”

“A good decision is always backed by solid data and solid trends behind it,” Shekhar says. “I think the differentiator between organizations now and in the coming future is how well they use data, and that’s why they need people who can speak and understand the language of data very well.”

“This is a program for folks who are looking to gain data science skills for their career alongside necessary business skills that will help them do a better job at their organization, advance in their career, etc,” Dietrick tells Fortune. “So it is this really nice hybrid program that hits on both, it fits sort of a nice sweet spot right in the middle.”

A degree for a hot market can boost your potential, and Dasmohapatra says students know this. “I think potential students have already realized that in the marketplace, they are finding that their current job now needs to have some understanding of data because if they are not using that, then they are going to be behind the rest, and this gives them a competitive advantage over other folks that are not doing the program,” she tells Fortune.

“The way the industry is looking at any roles, they are trying to fine tune those roles to add an element of data analytics and whether you’re a fresher or you’re the chief executive, There is a need for you to have some understanding of how data works, ” Shekar tells Fortune.

Similarly, Tepper business analytics students often see a career advancement post-graduation. “I think 84% of our students who graduated in 2021 secured a promotion or some sort of new position within three months of graduating from the program. This is the pivot point that launches them into the next phase of their career,” Dietrick notes.

“A degree for them is a way to upskill themselves,” Shekhar says. “Learning is a continuous thing, but a degree definitely gives you a very structured approach to learning new skills that also helps professionals in continuing their education in a way that they are able to still be very relevant to their organization and still be relevant in their careers.”

Moreover, even those people at the top of organizations look to keep learning. “We see a lot of senior executives spending time through certificate programs and through degrees,” Shekhar says. “It’s not too late to start. But they’re doing it just because they want to be better decision makers, not because they want a fancy degree.”

Dasmohapatra agrees. “We have data that indicates that there is a big shift and an upward shift in base salaries as well as in the other types of career outcomes,” she says. “I can tell you with confidence that almost 80% of the students—before they graduate or finish the program—have made a transition into that type of career that they have been looking into.”

While time commitment, cost, and workload are factors to consider—and a pay increase is always sweet—Shekhar says that more than anything, a degree in business analytics can be transformational. “There is nothing like education that can change the course of an individual or their family or their future generations.”

“Academic institutions definitely have an upper hand in terms of creating skills that really augment an organization’s value in a very short amount of time,” he notes. “You learn quickly, you learn without wasting too much energy and resources and you learn in a streamlined way that you’re able to become productive. People have to think about academic institutions as providers of experience that nobody else can, and that’s the value we propose.”