Jump into the heart of the action with the JBL Quantum 910 Wireless. Free from wires and restrictions, the latest addition to the JBL Quantum line-up features advanced head tracking for the ultimate gaming experience.

“The Quantum 910 is an absolute gamer charger for our gaming headset range.” says Ashleigh Kingston, Marketing Manager at JBL Australia.

“We heard the feedback and suggestions from the community and we’ve packed all of that into the Quantum 910 wireless gaming headset. With the Quantum 910, gamers will enjoy virtual surround sound, head tracking, multi-platform connectivity, longer battery life, charge + play integration plus Active Noise Cancelling. All of this while continuing our Discord Certification, Sound Equalisation and Light control software solutions. With 39 hours of non-stop gaming plus all the features gamers have come to love about the JBL Quantum range packed into this new headset, we’re confident we’ve created the go-to gaming headset for our community.”

The JBL Quantum 910 Wireless provides the audio quality you need to gain the upper hand, no matter what you’re playing, with the JBL QuantumSPHERE360™, JBL QuantumSPATIAL 360™ and integrated head tracking. Built-in sensors precisely track the tiniest of head movements for a next level sound placement and immersive in-game audio experience. You’ll hear every footstep and precisely locate enemies as sounds appear in multidimensional space. Next-gen 360-degree room emulation and JBL Quantum SURROUND replicates the sense of space within virtual worlds more realistically, allowing for full game immersion.

Leave distractions from the real world behind with powerful active noise cancelling and concentrate on what really matters with JBL’s legendary sound quality. Use the flip-up-to-mute boom microphone for supreme voice clarity and to take multiplayer games to a whole new level.

Compatible with all lifestyles and platforms, simply connect the headset to your PC, console or mobile. 2.4 GHz wireless low latency connection and JBL QuantumSPHERE 360™ ensures you have a competitive edge on the PC.

Prefer PlayStation or Nintendo Switch? Connect your headset and instantly be in the centre of every game with JBL QuantumSPATIAL 360™. On the move? Bluetooth 5.2 connectivity and active noise cancelling provides an immersive on-the-go gaming experience, even in the noisiest environments.

And to ensure you don’t run out of juice mid-game – top up the 39 hours of battery life with play and charge using the USB charging cable for unlimited gaming sessions.

The JBL Quantum 910 Wireless (RRP $499.95) is available now from JB HiFi, Harvey Norman, Bing Lee, Amazon and direct from JBL Australia.