NO PURCHASE OR PAYMENT NECESSARY. A

PURCHASE WILL NOT IMPROVE YOUR CHANCES OF WINNING. VOID WHERE PROHIBITED BY LAW.

BY SUBMITTING A PHOTO IN THIS CONTEST,

THE ENTRANT HEREBY ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT THE PHOTO MAY APPEAR ON SPONSOR’S

WEBSITE AND SOCIAL MEDIA PAGES.

BY ENTERING THE CONTEST, EACH ENTRANT

AGREES TO THESE OFFICIAL RULES.

Eligibility:

The Nestlé Purina PetCare Company, – Tidy Care Refresh Contest (the “Contest”) is

open only to legal residents of the 50 United States and District of Columbia who

are cat owners with a maximum of three (3) cats in their household, and 18 years or

older (or 19 years or older for residents of AL & NE). Void where prohibited by law.

No purchase necessary to enter the Contest. Employees of Nestlé Purina PetCare

Company, 1 Checkerboard Square, St. Louis, MO 63164 (the “Sponsor”), Brandmovers,

Inc., 1519 Carroll Drive, Atlanta, GA 30318 (“Administrator”), Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.

(collectively with Sponsor and Administrator, the “Released Parties”), and any of

their respective parent companies, affiliates, subsidiaries, advertising agencies,

or any other company or individual involved with the design, production execution or

distribution of the Contest and their immediate family (spouse, parents and

step-parents, siblings and step-siblings, and children and step-children) and

household members of each such employee are not eligible to enter or win. The

Contest is subject to all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations.

Participation constitutes entrant’s full and unconditional agreement to these

Official Rules and Sponsor’s decisions, which are final and binding in all matters

related to the Contest. Winning a prize is contingent upon fulfilling all

requirements set forth herein.

Contest

Periods:

The Contest consists of the following two (2) time periods and deadlines:

The entry period begins on April 10, 2023 at 12:00:00 AM Central Time

(“CT”) and ends May 8, 2023 at 11:59:59 PM CT (the “Contest Entry Period”).

The judging period will run from May 9, 2023 through May 22, 2023

(“Judging Period”).

How to Enter.

To enter the Contest, eligible entrants can visit www. TidyCareRefresh.com

(“Website”) during the Contest Entry Period (defined in Official Rule #2(a) above).

Once on the Website, find, complete and submit the online entry form, including

answering the questions (“Answers”) and uploading a photo of your cat and your cats’

litter box space (“Photos”). Photos must be in JPG, JPEG or PNG format and no larger

than 5 MB in size. The entry form, Photos and Answers will collectively be referred

to as a “Submission.” All Submissions must be received by 11:59:59 PM CT on May 8,

2023 to be eligible for the Contest. Sponsor is not responsible for any technical

issue relating to the entry form, including any issues with uploading the Photos,

entry form or Answers. Limit one (1) Submission per–household during the entire

Contest Entry Period.

Photo and

Answers Requirements:

Entrants agree to and understand that the Photos and Answers will be made available

to the public, including without limitation, posting on the Internet and may appear

in Sponsor’s advertising and marketing materials. Whether or not Photos and Answers

are published on the Internet, Sponsor does not covenant or guarantee any

confidentiality with respect to any Photos and Answers entries.

The Photos and Answers must not have been submitted previously in any

Contest of any kind or exhibited or displayed publicly (i.e., disclosed

beyond your immediate circle of friends and family) through any means

previously.

The Photo must be the entrant’s personal cat and taken at entrant’s home. No

professionally-taken Photos will be accepted.

Each Photo and Answers must be an original creation of the submitting

entrant which is under no restriction, contractual or otherwise, that will

prevent Sponsor’s use of the Photos and Answers and each Photos and Answers

must be free of any and all liens, encumbrances and claims of third parties.

Entrant acknowledges, agrees and warrants that, nothing in the Photos or

Answers infringes on any copyrights, confidential information, trade secrets

or trademarks belonging to any person or entity other than the entrant

absent a suitable license, clearance or permission agreement (proof of which

is required upon submission), or violates any person’s rights of privacy or

publicity and that all necessary releases and permissions have been secured.

Entrant agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each of the Released Parties

and their respective parent, subsidiaries, and affiliates and each of their

respective officers, directors and employees, from and against any and all

claims, demands, damages, costs, liabilities and causes of action of

whatsoever nature that are based upon or arise out of any breach by entrant

of these Official Rules or the warranties and representations made by

entrant in this paragraph. Modifying, enhancing or altering a third party’s

preexisting work does not qualify as entrant’s original creation.

By uploading the Photos and Answers, the entrant agrees, for zero

compensation, to grant to Sponsor all intellectual property rights in the

Photos and Answers and each of its constituent parts, which rights include,

without limitation, the Sponsor’s right to publish, make available to the

public and/or reproduce the Photos and Answers through any media available

at any time during, or after, the Contest Period on any related websites, in

any promotional materials, whether related or un-related to the Contest, and

at any other location, whether physical or online, that Sponsor, in its sole

discretion, deems appropriate and necessary for the operation and promotion

of this Contest. In addition, entrant warrants that any so called “moral

rights” in the Photos and Answers have been waived and entrant acknowledges

and agrees that Sponsor may use any ideas from any Photos and Answers or

other submitted materials, whether or not entrant has been awarded a prize

in connection with any such Photos and Answers or other materials. Entrant

agrees to release, defend, indemnify and hold harmless each of Released

Parties, and each of their parent, subsidiaries, and affiliates and each of

their respective owners, employees, directors, officers, agents, and

subcontractors from all claims, demands, and causes of action of any nature

whatsoever which entrant or entrant’s heirs, representatives, executors,

administrators, or any other persons acting on entrant’s behalf or on behalf

of entrant’s estate, have or may have by reason of: (i) Sponsor’s exercise

of any rights granted by entrant in this paragraph; (ii) claims based on

violation of any right of publicity or rights of personality, infringement

of copyright or trademark, libel, slander, defamation, invasion of privacy,

loss of earnings or potential earnings in connection with Sponsor’s use of

the Photos entry and any portion thereof, or the likeness of any natural

person therein.

Entrants are responsible for securing necessary permissions, talent and

location releases, and licenses for any visual material contained in the

Photo entries.

Photos and Answers Content Restrictions

Photos and Answers must not contain material that:

Contains or depicts someone smoking or intoxicated;

Violates or infringes another’s rights, including without limitation,

privacy, publicity or intellectual property rights, or that constitutes

copyright infringement;

Contains material that promotes bigotry, racism, hatred or harm against any

group or individual or promotes discrimination based on race, sex, religion,

nationality, disability, sexual orientation or age;

Contains any unacceptable clothing or adornments, or displays any

commercial/corporate brand or advertising other than that of Sponsor

(including but not limited to corporate logos, brand names, trademarks,

slogans, political, personal and religious statements);

Contains indecent or unsafe behavior or situations, profanities or

obscenities, including but not limited to nudity, or pornography, or is

otherwise inappropriate, indecent, profane, obscene, hateful, tortuous,

slanderous or libelous;

Because Nestlé Purina PetCare Company promotes the compassionate care of all

pets, photos depicting or describing animals in unsafe conditions or

conditions not exemplifying responsible pet ownership, in Sponsor’s sole

discretion, will be disqualified. You should avoid even the “appearance” of

your cat being in unsafe conditions in your entry. Sponsor’s determination of

what constitutes an unsafe activity or condition shall be final.;

References persons or organizations without their written permission;

Disparages any persons or organizations;

Includes threats to any person, place, business, or group;

Is unlawful, in violation of or contrary to all applicable federal, state,

or local laws and regulations.

Failure of any Photo or Answers to comply with the above “Photo and Answers

Requirements” and “Photo and Answers Content Restrictions,” as determined by

Sponsor, in its sole discretion, may result in disqualification of entrant.

Without limitation, Sponsor reserves the right in its sole discretion to

disqualify any entry that, in their sole opinion, refers, depicts or in any

way reflects negatively upon the Sponsor, the Contest or any other person or

entity, does not comply with these Official Rules or if Sponsor receives

notification about any potential infringements or breaches of law or any

other reason set forth herein. All Photos and Answers entries shall become

the exclusive property of Sponsor and will not be returned. Photos and

Answers entries must be suitable for presentation in a public forum, in sole

determination of Sponsor.

Failure of any Photo entry to comply with the

above

“Photo Entry Requirements” and “Photo Entry

Content Restrictions,” as determined by Sponsor, in its sole discretion, may

result in

disqualification of entrant. Without limitation, Sponsor reserves the right

in its sole discretion to

disqualify any entry that, in their sole opinion, refers, depicts or in any

way reflects negatively

upon the Sponsor, the Sweepstakes or any other person or entity, does not

comply with these

Official Rules or if Sponsor receives notification about any potential

infringements or breaches of

law or any other reason set forth herein. All Photo entries shall become the

exclusive property of

Sponsor and will not be returned. Photo entries must be suitable for

presentation in a public

forum, in sole determination of Sponsor.

Finalists:

During the Judging Period, all eligible Submissions received during the

Contest Entry Period will be judged by independent judging panel from

Sponsor using the following judging criteria and percentages: (a) Fit within

the Tidy Care brand and Contest theme (25%); (b) Need for Litter Box Refresh

based on Written Entry (25%); (c) Creativity of Written Entry (25%), and

Richness of Visual Assets Submitted with Entry (25%) (collectively, the

“Judging Criteria”). The Submission that receives the overall highest score

will be deemed the Grand Prize winner, the remaining five (5) Submissions

will be deemed Runner Up Winners. In the event of a tie, the Grand Prize

winner will be deemed the Submission who received the highest score in the

Need for Litterbox Refresh as explained in the Answers criteria. Each

potential winner will be notified by Administrator or Sponsor on or about

the business day following the Judging Period by email or telephone.

Administrator will make up to two (2) attempts to contact each potential

winner. Each potential winner must respond within 48 hours from

Administrators sending the email to the potential winner, or prize will be

forfeited and awarded to an alternate winner, time permitting.

Prizes and

Approximate Retail Value (“ARVs”) – One (1) Grand Prize –

A $5,000.00 Walmart Gift Card to go towards the Refresh transformation, a 1-year

supply of Tidy Care Comfort cat litter, awarded as twenty (20) manufacturers

coupons, each good for a 24 lb. box (Free up to $29.99) of Tidy Cats® Tidy CareTM

comfort cat litter, a 1-year W+ subscription, and a virtual consultation with a

Sponsor-selected design expert, along with a virtual consultation with Purina

Principal Pet Behavior Specialist, to further understand the space and cat

behaviors. Consultation with Sponsor’s design expert will include room renderings or

style boards created and provided by Sponsor’s design expert, a list of recommended

home products from Walmart that will work well in the space, guidance from Purina

Principal Pet Behavior Specialist to keep cat behaviors in mind, and ARV: $7,000.00.

Sponsor will also provide Grand Prize winner with a single cash payment in the form

of a corporate check, which is intended to assist the winner with any federal,

state, or other tax obligations related to the Grand Prize (the “Tax Gross-Up

Payment”). The Tax Gross-Up Payment will be $2,800. The Grand Prize winner’s actual

tax liabilities related to the Grand Prize could exceed the Tax Gross-Up Payment.

The Grand Prize winner is solely responsible for all applicable federal, state, or

other tax obligations related to the Grand Prize. Sponsor will not provide any

further assistance toward the winner’s tax obligations. Gift cards are subject to

the terms, conditions and restrictions printed on the card. The virtual consultation

will occur at a Sponsor-specified date and time and in the event the Grand Prize

winner is unwilling or unable to meet with Sponsor’s design expert or Purina

Principal Pet Behavior Specialist at such time, the consultation portion of the

Grand Prize will be forfeited and go unawarded at Sponsor’s sole discretion and the

total ARV of the Grand Prize will be reduced to $5,298.00. Released Parties are not

responsible in the event design expert or Purina Principal Pet Behavior Speciali are

unable to make the virtual consultation.  Five (5) Runner Up Prizes

– A Tidy Care

prize pack consisting of [insert products] $100 in Purina Tidy Cats product coupons,

and a 1-year W+ subscription. ARV: $500.00 each. Coupons are subject to the terms,

conditions and restrictions printed on coupons. The total ARV of all Prizes is

$12,300.00.

Prizes are non-transferrable, and not substitutable and not redeemable for cash.

Sponsor may substitute a prize, or portion thereof, for one of equal or greater

value at Sponsor’s sole discretion for any reason. Winners are solely

responsible for all local, state and federal taxes associated with the Prizes.

Winners may be required to sign a Winner Release & liability and/or publicity

release (“Prize Release”) form prior to issuance of a prize, including a W9 tax

form, if applicable. A 1099 form may be submitted to all appropriate taxing

authorities. The winners must meet the eligibility requirements as set forth in

Paragraph 1 of these Official Rules.

Claiming the

Prize:

In order to collect the Prizes, the potential Prize winners will be required to

verify their email and mailing address to Sponsor (no PO Boxes), and provide the

Prize Release and W9 (if applicable) to Sponsor, within ten (10) business

days of

being notified they are a winner. Upon receipt of the Prize Release and W9 (if

applicable), Sponsor or Administrator will mail the Prize to that winner. In the

event the potential winner fails to verify their address or any required documents

within the timeframe provided by Sponsor, they will forfeit their right to the

Prize. Sponsor is not responsible for lost, late, delayed, damaged, stolen,

returned, technical glitches or mutilated mailing or emailing of any prize. All

unclaimed or returned prizes remain the property of Sponsor.

Participation

Conditions/Release/Consent to use Likeness:

By participating, each participant agrees to: (a) comply with and be bound by these

Official Rules and the decisions of the Sponsor which are binding and final in all

matters relating to this Contest; (b) release and hold harmless the Released Parties

from and against any and all claims, expenses, and liability, including, but not

limited to, negligence and damages of any kind to persons and property, including,

but not limited to, invasion of privacy (under appropriation, intrusion, public

disclosure of private facts, false light in the public eye or other legal theory),

defamation, slander, libel, violation of right of publicity, infringement of

trademark, copyright or other intellectual property rights, property damage, or

death or personal injury arising out of or relating to a participant’s participation

in this Contest, and acceptance or use or misuse of prize; (c) indemnify, defend and

hold harmless the Released Parties from and against any and all claims, expenses,

and liabilities (including reasonable attorney’s fees) arising out of or relating to

an entrant’s participation in the Contest and/or entrant’s acceptance, use or misuse

of prize; and (d) allow Sponsor’s use for promotional purposes of his/her likeness,

voice and/or address (city/state) without any additional compensation.

General

Conditions:

By participating, each participant agrees to: (a) comply with and be bound by these

Official Rules and the decisions of the Sponsor which are binding and final in all

matters relating to this Contest; (b) release and hold harmless the Released Parties

from and against any and all claims, expenses, and liability, including, but not

limited to, negligence and damages of any kind to persons and property, including,

but not limited to, invasion of privacy (under appropriation, intrusion, public

disclosure of private facts, false light in the public eye or other legal theory),

defamation, slander, libel, violation of right of publicity, infringement of

trademark, copyright or other intellectual property rights, property damage, or

death or personal injury arising out of or relating to a participant’s participation

in this Contest, and acceptance or use or misuse of prize; (c) indemnify, defend and

hold harmless the Released Parties from and against any and all claims, expenses,

and liabilities (including reasonable attorney’s fees) arising out of or relating to

an entrant’s participation in the Contest and/or entrant’s acceptance, use or misuse

of prize; and (d) allow Sponsor’s use for promotional purposes of his/her likeness,

voice and/or address (city/state) without any additional compensation.

General

Conditions:

Sponsor reserves the right to cancel, suspend and/or modify the Contest, or any part

of it, for any reason whatsoever, including, without limitation, fire, flood,

natural or man-made pandemic or epidemic of health or other means, earthquake,

explosion, labor dispute or strike, act of God or public enemy, satellite or

equipment failure, riot or civil disturbance, terrorist threat or activity, war

(declared or undeclared) or any federal state or local government law, order, or

regulation, public health crisis, order of any court or jurisdiction or if any

fraud, technical failures or any other factor beyond Sponsor’s reasonable control

impairs the integrity or proper functioning of the Contest, as determined by Sponsor

in its sole discretion. Sponsor reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to

disqualify any individual it finds to be tampering with the participation process or

the operation of the Contest or to be acting in violation of these Official Rules or

any other Contest or in an unsportsmanlike or disruptive manner. Any attempt by any

person to deliberately undermine the legitimate operation of the Contest may be a

violation of criminal and civil law, and, should such an attempt be made, Sponsor

reserves the right to seek damages from any such person to the fullest extent

permitted by law. Only the type and quantity of prize described in these Official

Rules will be awarded. The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of these

rules shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision. In the

event that any provision is determined to be invalid or otherwise unenforceable or

illegal, these rules shall otherwise remain in effect and shall be construed in

accordance with their terms as if the invalid or illegal provision were not

contained herein. Sponsor’s failure to enforce any term of these Official Rules

shall not constitute a waiver of that provision.

Limitations

of Liability:

The Released Parties as set forth above are not responsible for: (1) any incorrect

or inaccurate information, whether caused by entrants, printing errors or by any of

the equipment or programming associated with or utilized in the Contest; (2)

technical failures of any kind, including, but not limited, to malfunctions,

interruptions or disconnections in phone lines or network hardware or software; (3)

unauthorized human intervention in any part of the participation process or the

Contest; (4) technical or human error which may occur in the administration of the

Contest or the processing of phone calls; or (5) any injury or damage to persons or

property which may be caused, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, from

entrant’s participation in the Contest or receipt or use or misuse of any Prize.

Privacy

Policies and Data Collections:

Information provided by you for this Contest on the entry form, including the Photos

and Answers, is subject to Administrator’s Privacy Policy: http://www.brandmovers.com/legal/privacy;

or Sponsor’s privacy policy:

www.purina.com/privacy-policy

as applicable. By entering this Contest, each entrant

(or their parent/legal guardian if entrant is a minor in the state of their

residence) agrees that the Sponsor and/or Administrator has the right to contact the

entrant by phone, direct message, or email accounts provided on the Entry Form to

administer and fulfill this Contest.

Disputes/Governing Law:

Entrant (or their parent/legal guardian if entrant is a minor in the state of their

residence) agrees that: (i) any and all disputes, claims and causes of action

arising out of or connected with this Contest, other than those concerning the

administration of the Contest or the determination of Winners or for any disputes

arising from the loss or injury from the participation in a Prize, shall be resolved

individually, without resort to any form of class action; (ii) any disputes arising

out of these Official Rules (except for any disputes arising from the loss or injury

from the use of Prizes) shall be submitted to final, binding arbitration conducted

in Michigan under the Arbitration Rules and Procedures of the Judicial Arbitration

and Mediation Services Inc. before a single, neutral arbitrator who is a former or

retired Michigan state or federal court judge with experience in entertainment

matters who shall follow Michigan law and the Federal Rules of Evidence and have no

authority to award punitive damages. Either party may enforce a final arbitration

award in any court of competent jurisdiction in Michigan, including an award of

costs, fees and expenses incurred in enforcing the award. Notwithstanding the

foregoing, Released Parties shall be entitled to seek injunctive relief (unless

otherwise precluded by any other provision of these Official Rules) in the state and

federal courts of Michigan. Any dispute or portion thereof, or any claim for a

particular form of relief (not otherwise precluded by any other provision of these

Official Rules), that may not be arbitrated pursuant to applicable state or federal

law may be heard only in a court of competent jurisdiction in Michigan; (iii) any

and all claims, judgments and awards shall be limited to actual out-of- pocket costs

incurred, including costs associated with entering this Contest, but in no event

attorneys’ fees; and (iv) under no circumstances will entrant be permitted to obtain

awards for, and entrant hereby waives all rights to claim punitive, incidental and

consequential damages and any other damages, other than for actual out- of-pocket

expenses, and any and all rights to have damages multiplied or otherwise increased.

SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE LIMITATIONS OR EXCLUSION OF LIABILITY FOR

INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THE ABOVE MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU. All issues

and questions concerning the construction, validity, interpretation and

enforceability of these Official Rules, or the rights and obligations of the entrant

and Sponsor in connection with the Contest, shall be governed by, and construed in

accordance with, the laws of the State of Michigan, without giving effect to any

choice of law or conflict of law rules (whether of the State of Michigan or any

other jurisdiction), which would cause the application of the laws of any

jurisdiction other than the State of Michigan.

Contest

Winners:

For the Contest Winners’ names (available after May 23, 2023),

send a hand-printed, self-addressed, stamped envelope to: Winners List, Nestle

Purina Pet Care – Tidy Care Refresh Contest Winners, Brandmovers, Inc., 1519 Carroll

Drive, Atlanta, GA 30318.

Official Rules:

For a copy of these Official Rules see the Website during the Contest Period or

send a hand-printed, self-addressed, stamped envelope to: Official Rules – Tidy

Care Refresh Contest Rules, Brandmovers, Inc., 1519 Carroll Drive, Atlanta, GA

30318.