Not quite making as much progress as you’d like in Unknown Knights? Little strapped for cash? Well, that’s where our Unknown Knights codes list comes into play. In this guide, we’ve rounded up the latest codes that you can redeem in-game. Do so and you’ll earn free stuff that will help you progress without spending a dime.

Unknown Knights is a combination of city building strategy and gacha RPG. You have to expand your territory by building up an army of knights, which is where the gacha elements come in. By collecting cards for various characters, you can build a deck and use it in battle Hearthstone-style.

You can learn more about it on the official site, or check out the best characters in our Unknown Knights tier list. Or, if you fancy something new to play, check out our Kele Fruits codes, Clicker Mining Simulator codes, and Demian Saga codes.

Last checked for new codes on April 19.

There are no active codes yet. Check back soon!

There are no expired codes at present.

Still got questions about Unknown Knights? Confused about what codes are? Well, we’ve answered all questions you may have below.

Unknown Knights is a city building gacha game that sees you expanding your territory by recruiting knights gacha-style. You build a deck out of them and send them out into battle against your enemies.

Codes are, essentially, free gifts that developers and publishers provide to players. They usually arrive in the form of fun little phrases that you can redeem in-game. What you get for doing so can vary too. Typically it’s in-game currency, but you can occasionally get characters, item, boosts, and more.

If you play a game regularly, and prefer to avoid spending money, you should definitely keep an eye out for codes as often as possible.

If your code didn’t work when redeeming it, chances are that it’s expired. Most codes do have an expiration date, but we often don’t learn when this is at the point the codes are handed out. Instead, we test them regularly to see if they’re still working, but they’ll occasionally slip through the cracks.

Alternatively, it might be that you’ve redeemed that code already. You can typically only redeem a code a single time per account, so if you’ve redeemed one already it won’t work a second time. It’s worth making a note of which codes you’ve redeemed each time you do so.

We update this article every single time a new code is released, so the best way to get more codes is to bookmark this page and check back regularly. That way, you’ll never miss out on a freebie.

You can also follow the official Facebook and Twitter accounts, or join the Discord. Developers usually hand out codes over social media, and even hand out different codes on each platform. So it’s worth following all of the above to ensure you never miss anything.