Months after being “blindsided” by an opioid treatment center near a Boys and Girls Club, the council approved a moratorium this week.

Months after being “blindsided” by an opioid treatment center near a Boys and Girls Club, the council approved a moratorium this week.

LYNNWOOD — Months after a controversial opioid treatment center opened next to the Alderwood Boys and Girls Club, the Lynnwood City Council has passed an emergency moratorium halting any similar centers for six months.

The ordinance approved Monday pauses permit processing for new addiction treatment centers. It comes four months after the controversial Acadia opioid treatment center stirred public outcry. The ordinance passed 5-1 with City Council member Shirley Sutton voting no. Council member Josh Binda was absent.

Three days before the “emergency” meeting, David Kleitsch, the city’s development and business services director, notified Mayor Christine Frizzell of an application for what could be a drug treatment center.

Kleitsch had received an application for a “business tenant improvement” that would be used as a clinic. After further digging, staff found the applicant, which was not named at the meeting, provides “substance use disorder treatment programs providing outpatient medication assisted treatment via medication, counseling and community based services.”

Staff also found “opioid addiction treatment centers are specifically listed on this company’s website,” according to the mayor.

Frizzell said it was “imperative” to bring the issue before the council, as the city is already reviewing code to have more control about where addiction treatment centers pop up.

In January, protesters gathered for weeks and dozens showed up to council meetings, pushing back against the Acadia Healthcare center at 2322 196th St. SW. A public hearing had been held during the winter holidays when many were unavailable to voice concerns, and City Council members said they were kept in the dark about its opening.

Several City Council members spoke out against the location of the Acadia Healthcare center.

Council member Jim Smith said the council felt “blindsided” by Acadia Healthcare in January, and this moratorium gives city leaders time to “roll up our sleeves” and consider options before it’s too late.

“Our experience the first time — with the lack of communication between the facility and us — that was very concerning,” Council President Shannon Sessions said. “Hopefully, (the moratorium) will also give this company the chance to communicate properly with us as well.”

Within the next 60 days, the City Council plans to hold a public hearing and choose a date to begin the six-month ban.

Council member George Hurst expressed concerns about the length of the moratorium, but according to the city attorney, council members can alter it as they wish.

“We learned a lot through the process of siting Acadia, and we really do know that there needs to be community outreach,” Hurst said. “I think we could be proactive here and now.”

Kayla J. Dunn: 425-339-3449 kayla.dunn@heraldnet.com; Twitter: @KaylaJ_Dunn.

You can tell us about news and ask us about our journalism by emailing newstips@heraldnet.com  or by calling 425-339-3428.

If you have an opinion you wish to share for publication, send a letter to the editor to letters@heraldnet.com or by regular mail to The Daily Herald, Letters, P. O. Box 930, Everett, WA 98206.

More contact information is here.