Chelsea’s history in the Champions League can be a huge plus for Frank Lampard in his bid to win the competition.

They face the sternest of tests as they meet reigning champions Real Madrid in the quarter-finals, and you can listen to full commentary of the first leg live on talkSPORT on Wednesday night.

Few will give Lampard’s men a prayer of reaching the semis but no club has managed madness better than the Blues when it comes to European campaigns, having won it twice in chaotic circumstances.

Chelsea’s triumphs came in 2012 and 2021, and both seasons were fraught with turmoil.

The first success could never have been predicted when Andre Villas-Boas was sacked just nine months into his stint in charge of the London outfit.

With the club out of the top four and a 3-1 defeat to Napoli in the last-16 of the Champions League, it looked like Chelsea’s season was over and former player Roberto di Matteo was brought in to see things out.

What followed was nothing short of a miracle as they went on to overturn their two-goal deficit against Napoli before beating Benfica in the quarter-finals.

Chelsea then managed to defeat Pep Guardiola’s legendary Barcelona over two legs, despite going 2-0 down at the Camp Nou and John Terry getting sent off. But strikes from Ramires and Fernando Torres sent them through to the final having won the first leg at Stamford Bridge.

After getting barraged throughout the final, the Blues took Bayern Munich to penalties where Didier Drogba cemented himself as a Stamford Bridge legend by scoring the winning spot-kick after getting a late equaliser which sent the match into extra-time.

And history repeated itself in 2021, this time with Lampard at the helm during his first stint in charge of Chelsea.

When a spell of poor form at the start of the year tested then-owner Roman Abramovich’s patience, the club icon was sacked and Thomas Tuchel was brought in.

Not even the demanding Russian could have envisaged Chelsea going on to triumph in the Champions League, though, as Tuchel hit the ground running and them some.

Atletico Madrid and Porto were swatted aside with ease before Chelsea beat Real Madrid in the semi-finals with goals from Timo Werner and Mason Mount.

Manchester City met them in the final which saw Kai Havertz score the only goal of the match despite Pep Guardiola’s men dominating for large portions.

Nevertheless, Chelsea revelled in their underdog status and claimed victory against all odds – something they must harness this season to stand a chance of winning the Champions League again.

After Graham Potter’s dismissal, Lampard has been given a lifeline and a chance to finish what he started before he was axed in 2021.

And as a player who has been through all the highs and lows at Stamford Bridge and witnessed the success, there might not be a better coach to guide them to it.