Charity Dingle and Moira Barton found themselves embroiled in a heated showdown during Tuesday's episode of Emmerdale.

After promising fiancé Mackenzie Boyd (Lawrence Robb) she would spend some time with his sister Moira (Natalie J Robb) ahead of Charity and Mack's wedding, Charity (Emma Atkins) let her paranoia get the better of her as she accused Moira of trying to sabotage the nuptials.

In the episode's opening scenes, Moira was seen showing Charity a slideshow of childhood pictures which revealed Mac was a fan of the A-Team, prompting Charity to book him van themed on the movie as a gift ahead of the big day.

But, while there were initially pleasantries between Charity and Moira, things soon took a turn for the worse when they ended up in a physical brawl in the barn, rolling about in the hay in which Moira lost the wedding wings.

Charity became convinced Moira was intent on ruining the wedding and went on to banish her from the occasion, insisting she'd enlist the help of husband-to-be Mack but, while things were fraught between the two characters, fans of the show took to Twitter to express their delight as the action unfolded.

One person wrote: 'Charity and Moira should marry each other instead because their love-hate relationship is always very entertaining and like a REAL marriage who’s gonna tell Cain though.'

Someone else shared: 'Charity and Moira have had such iconic feuds before but this one over Mac is so cringy.'

Another viewer posted: 'Moira & Charity shouldn’t be allowed to have close contact or a fight is inevitable.'

Someone else shared: 'I love a charity and moira kick off,' while someone else posted: 'Haha go on Charity wrestle with Moira in the hay.'

One other soap fan remarked: 'Didn't take long for the nicey nicey to wear off for Moira and Charity did it?'

While someone else shared: 'Well that light hearted fun conversation between Moira and charity soon turned iffy.'

'We need a whole episode of just Charity and Moira,' demanded another viewer.

Charity and Mackenzie are set to have one of the most dramatic weddings Emmerdale has ever had.

And the action ramps up the day before the nuptials when things in the village take an unexpected turn.

Moira shows Charity some old photos ahead of the wedding, and she spots a reference to the A-Team which gives are an idea for a special present for her soon-to-be husband Mack.

Charity manages to get hold of an A-Team replica van to surprise Mack, with the Charity, Mack and Moira dressing up as characters from the eighties television series.

Bride Charity dons a silver wig to become John 'Hannibal' Smith, while Moira dresses as 'Howling Mad' Murdock.

Mackenzie dresses as 'Face', also known as Lieutenant Templeton Arthur Peck.

Delighted with his gift, Mack and Charity decide to make the most of the van as they pull over on a country road and turn up the heat as they get close in the back.

However, they're in for a shock when PC Swirling knocks on the door and tells them they're getting steamy in a vehicle which had been involved in a robbery.

The couple are arrested and spend the night in the cells, just hours before they are due to say 'I do' at their wedding, with Charity believing Moira has set them up.

With the setback of the arrest, there's a huge question mark over whether the wedding can go ahead at all.

Charity unsuccessfully attempts to clear their name before the pair are later released, with it being almost too late for them to get married.

Luckily, PC Swirling is on hand with the A-Team van to drive at full pelt to the church so the nuptials can go ahead.

On filming the scenes, Emma said: 'I was like no, not again. But then I love the A-Team. As a kid I used to watch it all the time on Saturday night. I was obsessed.

'You've got to embrace these episodes or it's just not going to be great.

'We had loads of fun with it.'

It comes after Mack began to doubt his future with Charity after the pair enjoyed their stag and hen parties ahead of the big day.

Moira started to plant doubts in Mack's head about giving up any chance of having a child.

Of course Mack is harbouring the dirty secret that he has fathered a child with Chloe Harris (Jessie Elland).

Following an accident at Charity's hen party, pregnant Chloe was rushed to hospital, with Mack struggling to hide his concern.

Later Mack stunned Charity with a shocking confession that threw their entire wedding into doubt.

Emmerdale's executive producer Jane Hudson previously warned Charity and Mackenzie's wedding would be 'explosive'.

The soap boss reminded viewers Chloe's baby is due around the same time and that marriage ceremonies 'never go smoothly' on the show.

She told Metro: 'Weddings never go smoothly, and Chloe's baby is due around the time of the wedding!

'I think you can put the pieces together yourself and figure out what might happen around the wedding – it will be explosive for Charity and Mackenzie.'

Emmerdale airs weekdays at 7:30pm on ITV1 and ITVX.