The Court of Appeal for Saskatchewan disagreed that an erroneous pre-trial decision to dismiss Austin Yates' legal counsel caused a "miscarriage of justice" at the 2019 trial.      Miguel Lane, the victim in Regina's sixth homicide of 2018.

THIS CONTENT IS RESERVED FOR SUBSCRIBERS ONLY Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.  Unlimited online access to articles from across Canada with one account. Get exclusive access to the Regina Leader-Post ePaper, an electronic replica of the print edition that you can share, download and comment on. Enjoy insights and behind-the-scenes analysis from our award-winning journalists. Support local journalists and the next generation of journalists.      Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.  Unlimited online access to articles from across Canada with one account. Get exclusive access to the Regina Leader-Post ePaper, an electronic replica of the print edition that you can share, download and comment on. Enjoy insights and behind-the-scenes analysis from our award-winning journalists. Support local journalists and the next generation of journalists.      Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience.  Access articles from across Canada with one account. Share your thoughts and join the conversation in the comments.  Get email updates from your favourite authors.

We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or

tap here to see other videos from our team.   Yates was sentenced to 12 years for manslaughter in the death of Lane, who died after being shot in October 2018 in a robbery targeting drugs in his possession. Co-accused Kayle George was also found guilty and sentenced to 15 years.

Sign up to receive daily headline news from Regina Leader-Post, a division of Postmedia Network Inc.         There was an error, please provide a valid email address.        By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails or any newsletter. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300    Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Regina Leader Post Headline News will soon be in your inbox.   We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again

Yates submitted an appeal to the conviction and sentencing, heard June 2022, in which he claims that the dismissal of his legal counsel by the presiding judge at the outset of preliminary proceedings in May 2019 “deprived him of counsel of choice and that, in consequence, his trial was unfair” as it violated his constitutional right to counsel, identified under section 10(b) of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms.  The unsuccessful appeal called for Yates’ conviction be set aside as an error of law and a “miscarriage of justice,” to be remedied by way of a new trial.

In a written decision prepared by Justice Lian Schwann, the Court of Appeal for Saskatchewan dismissed the application on Monday.  “There is no suggestion that Mr. Yates was not competently or effectively represented by trial counsel or that his trial proceedings were in any way unfair,” writes Schwann.  “In my view, the evidence against Mr. Yates was so overwhelming that any other verdict would have been impossible to obtain.”           The appeal outlines pre-trial events, where Yates and George reached a plea agreement with the Crown and pleaded guilty to a lesser joint charge of manslaughter, reduced from second-degree murder.

Days later, Yates rescinded his agreement to the joint submission, to which the Crown submitted a stay of proceedings on the manslaughter charge and laid information to renew the second-degree murder charge.  Despite an argument that inquiry into the “ethics of lawyers” falls outside the jurisdiction of the court, an ensuing decision from the presiding provincial judge directed Yates’ counsel to withdraw on ethical grounds after the joint submission was abandoned.  “He saw it as his duty to remove counsel to ensure trial fairness and to maintain public confidence in the administration of justice,” reads the appeal decision.  Yates obtained new counsel and trial proceedings took place, resulting in a conviction in 2019 and sentencing in 2021.

Schwann’s written decision notes that while Yates is “entitled to raise this ground on appeal,” the dismissal is justified as he “took no steps” to challenge the decision during the pre-trial interim, through proceedings, or in the time after after trial between conviction and sentencing.  She notes that he “readily concedes” this fact. Yates’ appeal claims there “was no pre-trial remedy open to him to challenge the order.”  The Court of Appeal decision upheld that jurisdictional arguments are not relevant, and that while the judge erred in his interpretation ethical misconduct on the part of Yates’ counsel, the lawyer was “not unburdened by ethical issues.”  Schwann agreed the decision to removed counsel equated to a breach of Yates’ right to counsel of choice, but concluded the appeal as presented failed to “clear the high bar required to establish a miscarriage of justice.”

Moe says five-minute meeting with Trudeau wouldn't have been worth the drive

This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.