Nationwide recently announced a new partnership with Waffle, an insurtech company that offers all major personal insurance lines, to bring Nationwide's homeowners and auto insurance products to Waffle customers through its online platform. Nationwide is now Waffle's preferred home and auto insurance carrier, and Nationwide also selected Waffle to sell its personal property and casualty insurance products.

"Nationwide partnered with Waffle because they offer a unique online platform that could help us reach new customers in new ways. The Waffle platform asks a series of questions and provides insurance options that are right for the individual person," writes Lisa Gobber, VP of Nationwide Personal Lines Alternative Direct Distribution, to Digital Insurance. "As technology and consumer expectations evolve, Nationwide is committed to meeting members where they are, and how they prefer to work with us. For some customers, that means being able to quote and at times purchase insurance online or through an app."

The Waffle platform is a digital-first experience that aims to remove frustrations and lengthy quoting times from insurance. Customers can receive quotes in seconds and customize their coverage, all online. The website also allows customers to manage all aspects of their policies, such as reviewing policy documents and details, adjusting coverage and accessing the Waffle claim center, through the company's website.

"Waffle is a platform where customers can get instant insurance coverage from a variety of carriers, spanning major lines of business, auto, home, pet, life, renters, cyber and travel. To do so, Waffle has integrated end-to-end insurance products from some of the best carriers in the US. This allows customers to get all their insurance needs from Waffle without having to switch to another platform (like aggregators or most digital agencies do). On average it takes customers less than 90 seconds to get covered for renters, cyber, travel and pet and less than five minutes to get auto, home and life - all online without having to talk to anyone (they can if they need to of course)," writes Quentin Coolen, co-founder and CEO of Waffle, to Digital Insurance in an email interview.

Coverage is currently available in 12 states and will be expanding to additional states later this year.

"Nationwide is one of the country's most prominent carriers and we couldn't be more excited to partner with their phenomenal team to deliver expectational protection for our customers," said Coolen in a news release statement. "With this partnership, Waffle is realizing its original goal of protecting every aspect of our customers' lives - all online."