Something went wrong, please try again later.

Get the latest top news stories sent straight to your inbox with our daily newsletter

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Get the latest top news stories sent straight to your inbox with our daily newsletter

A period of pleasant weather is being enjoyed throughout Scotland, but cold temperatures and even snow could be returning sooner rather than later.

A toasty 20.1C was recorded at Kilnochewe the Scottish Highlands on Tuesday, according to the Met Office, with sunny conditions across Scotland so far this week.

However, things are set to take a turn with an icy front predicted to arrive next week. Pushing in from Scandinavia, the plume of cold air will bring bitterly cold and wintery conditions with weather maps predicting a period of unsettled weather.

According to WXCharts weather maps, there is a band of snow arriving in norther parts of Scotland by this weekend.

Wintry showers are forecast across Inverness and Fort William - up to 1cm per hour - heavy rain across eastern and southern areas of Scotland on Sunday morning.

The flurries are set to begin in the early hours - around 3am - continuing throughout the day before becoming more widespread as we head into Sunday morning, continuing throughout.

The wintery weather is set to remain throughout Monday, with forecasters expecting the snow to cover more ground, spreading to Aberdeen and as far a Dundee on Monday lunchtime.

The area of snow is also expected to spread across more northern areas of Scotland, including Wick, and into the Northern Isles during Monday morning and into the early afternoon.

The snow flurries will then become lighter into Monday evening, moving off land from the early hours of Tuesday as things dry up a little.

Alongside the snow, temperatures will also plummet with forecasters expecting a chill as low as -6C in northern areas, including Fort William.

The central belt will also feel much colder compared to this week, with temperatures battling to stay about freezing overnight on Monday and Tuesday.

The changeable weather followers a period of elevated pollen levels across the country as the mild weather combined with the first weeks of spring resulted in the spread of airborne tree particles.

Experts say that pollen levels are higher than usual with the Met Office issuing a "Pollen Bomb" alert for this week.

Don't miss the latest news from around Scotland and beyond - Sign up to our newsletter here.