Skip to content

Reviews

Makeup

Dupes

Foundation

Matrix

Swatches

More

More Posts

Sephora —        20% off for Rouges w/code  (15% off for VIBs and 10% off for Insiders starting 4/18), starts 4/14 and ends 4/24.

More Deals

Know what you're looking for?

A look into Bite Beauty's rebrand - is anything going right?

Curate a Makeup Collection You Love with More Mindfulness (2022 Guide)

View More

By Product

By Color or Type

Compare Any Two

Duplicate a high-end product or never buy the same shade twice.

Look to see if any shades between two palettes are known dupes.

Submit a Dupe

Tell us your current shade match, and we'll help you find a match in your next foundation or concealer!

Get Matched Now

Are you new to the world of foundation or have you never felt like you've found an ideal shade match? Not to worry -- we can still help!

Find your Shade

Readers often ask me what are my absolute, all-time favorites, and now you can find my current and long-time favorites all in one place!

View Favorites

Looking for the best makeup and beauty products? Find the top recommendations as voted by our Editor and community members here!

View Recommendations

Know what you're looking for?

By Product or Formula

By Color or Type

Editor's Color Stories

Build your own palette, create a color combination, or discover look ideas to try.

Create a Color Story

We earn commission on sales tracked from our links and codes. Thank you for your support!                     We earn commission from affiliate links/codes. Thank you!

Sephora —        20% off for Rouges w/code  (15% off for VIBs and 10% off for Insiders starting 4/18), starts 4/14 and ends 4/24.

Rare Beauty Honesty Soft Pinch Tinted Lip Oil ($20.00 for 0.1 oz.) is a darker peach with moderate, warm orange-leaning undertones that turned pinker and more of a terracotta color over time as the stain came through.

FURTHER READING:              Formula Overview              for details on general performance and characteristics (like scent).

These are the dupes the editor has pulled but not yet rated and officially entered. ColourPop Clap If You Believe (LE, $8.00).

The formula is described as a "tinted lip oil" that gives "comfortable, buildable" color and shine while leaving lips "hydrated and nourished" all day long but is "never sticky." All of the shades tint the lips a similar pinky-red hue, so some of the lighter and/or warmer shades tended to lose some of their nuance when applied.

It had a smooth, spreadable consistency that was lightweight, not overly oily but comfortable to work with and felt like it was balanced between thickness, spreadability, and having a cushioned feel on my lips. I felt like it was more like a water-based lip stain than a true lip oil as it wasn't as nourishing or as hydrating as an oil would have been, but it definitely produced a strong stain and was comfortable to wear.

I didn't notice much of a scent or taste, but it did have a cool, mint-like tingle that was noticeable after about five minutes and lingered for the first half hour overall. It didn't hurt nor cause any allergic reaction for me.

Browse all of our Rare Beauty Soft Pinch Tinted Lip Oil swatches.

Disclaimer: Ingredient lists are as available by the brand (or retailer)      at the time of publishing. Please always check product packaging, if it exists, for the ingredient list applicable      to the product you're purchasing, or the brand or retailer's website for the most up-to-date ingredient list.

Rare Beauty Affection Soft Pinch Tinted Lip Oil ($20.00 for 0.1 oz.) is a muted, medium-dark reddish-plum with subtle, warm undertones that turned slightly cooler-toned as the stain settled in.

FURTHER READING:              Formula Overview              for details on general performance and characteristics (like scent).

These are the dupes the editor has pulled but not yet rated and officially entered.MAC At Your Best You Are (LE, $21.00).

The formula is described as a "tinted lip oil" that gives "comfortable, buildable" color and shine while leaving lips "hydrated and nourished" all day long but is "never sticky." All of the shades tint the lips a similar pinky-red hue, so some of the lighter and/or warmer shades tended to lose some of their nuance when applied.

It had a smooth, spreadable consistency that was lightweight, not overly oily but comfortable to work with and felt like it was balanced between thickness, spreadability, and having a cushioned feel on my lips. I felt like it was more like a water-based lip stain than a true lip oil as it wasn't as nourishing or as hydrating as an oil would have been, but it definitely produced a strong stain and was comfortable to wear.

I didn't notice much of a scent or taste, but it did have a cool, mint-like tingle that was noticeable after about five minutes and lingered for the first half hour overall. It didn't hurt nor cause any allergic reaction for me.

Browse all of our Rare Beauty Soft Pinch Tinted Lip Oil swatches.

Disclaimer: Ingredient lists are as available by the brand (or retailer)      at the time of publishing. Please always check product packaging, if it exists, for the ingredient list applicable      to the product you're purchasing, or the brand or retailer's website for the most up-to-date ingredient list.