A GOP-led Senate committee finished its investigation into the origins of COVID-19 and concluded what Infowars first reported weeks after the pandemic began in 2020: the virus was leaked from the Wuhan Institute of Virology where the United States funded gain-of-function research.

After reviewing over 50,000 documents, the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee released a comprehensive 300-page report called “Muddy Waters,” which found the COVID pandemic was caused by two separate lab leaks in late 2019.

“This report concludes most likely this was two leaks,” Sen. Roger Marshall (R-Kan.) said during a briefing with reporters ahead of the release of the report. “The possibility of a lab leak in the September-October [2019] time frame, even as early as July or August, was followed by vaccine development in November 2019. And then another lab leak seems to be the most sensible explanation in this retrospective review.”

Marshall also warned that another virus could break out of China because the proper Biosafety Level 4 lab protocols, which have “the most stringent safety and security requirements” for virus research, are not being met.

“There’s nothing proving to me that they’re doing this type of research in BSL-4 labs,” he told Just The News. “Their own documents continue to show that they’re understaffed, that they don’t have the right facilities to do it in, a huge concern. That’s why we’ve been calling for a halt in all viral gain-of-function research until we get the guardrails around it.”

The National Institutes of Health (NIH) “manipulated gain-of-function to be what they say it is and what it isn’t, and then they get all lawyered up,” alleged Marshall, an obstetrician.

He also said China, the NIH, and other agencies are still withholding key documents from the committee.

“There are key data points that are being held back that could help us prove that, but we can’t get that data,” he said, adding China had tried to cover up the initial outbreak.

Marshall also said legislation is in the works that would require China to allow U. S. scientists to be present at labs that receive U.S. funding.

This comes as several top officials acknowledged that COVID was likely the result of a lab leak.

Former Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Director Robert Redfield admitted in congressional testimony that several government agencies fund gain-of-function research that was responsible for COVID-19.

This is just another nail in the coffin of the liars like Dr. Anthony Fauci, Bill Gates, World Heath Organization Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, and many others who had insisted for years without evidence that COVID originated from a wet market in Wuhan, China.

InfowarsStore.com is your one-stop shop for high-quality products you already need at bargain prices. Plus, your support ensures we fulfill our commitment to exposing and defeating the New World Order. Thank you!