Farewell to the endless video conferences: In the world of diplomacy, nothing beats direct contact. The post-Covid world has seen a resurgence of air travel for political leaders and their ministers, with a travel spree that will send carbon footprint figures spiraling. The routes, however, have changed. A new hub is emerging and much of the frenzy revolves around it: Beijing.

Since reopening after three years of zero Covid policy, the Chinese capital has been the place to be. As if to make up for lost time, everyone – from Singapore's Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong to French President Emmanuel Macron, from Malaysian Prime Minister Anwar Ibrahim to Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, not to mention the many bilateral talks on the sidelines of the G20 in Bali in November 2022 – has been flocking from around the globe to visit Xi Jinping, China's all-powerful ruler. Most recently, Gabonese President Omar Bongo arrived in Beijing on Tuesday, April 18.

The Europeans are far from being the least eager in what at times has looked like a race. German Chancellor Olaf Scholz led the pack, being the first to arrive in November, followed by European Council President Charles Michel and then Spanish President Pedro Sanchez. Ursula von der Leyen, president of the European Commission, accompanied Macron; two of her vice presidents, Josep Borrell and Frans Timmermans, were both forced to abandon their trips in recent days due to positive Covid tests. The head of German diplomacy, Annalena Baerbock, was able to make the trip and is the second emissary from Berlin in six months. Meanwhile, Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, who has been critical of all this European enthusiasm, is probably forgetting that his president, Andrzej Duda, also visited Xi in February 2022 to talk about trade, just as Russian forces were gathering at the gates of Ukraine.

Everyone has been – except the Americans. Secretary of State Antony Blinken's planned trip to Beijing, canceled in February because of the Chinese spy balloon controversy, has yet to be rescheduled. And while he and his G7 colleagues were sensibly attending a meeting in Japan on Monday, much else was going on under the Western radar. Sergei Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister, landed in Brasilia in jeans and sneakers. A way, perhaps, to show how comfortable he feels there. In any case, he was very well received, especially by Lula, who had just returned from Beijing and Abu Dhabi.  the Rio Branco Institute, the diplomatic academy in Brasilia, he compared the "propaganda" of the Europeans to that of Goebbels. Brazil was the first stop on Lavrov's tour of Latin America.

You have 54.61% of this article left to read. The rest is for subscribers only.