Rajasthan Royals (RR) and Lucknow Super Giants (LSG) will face off in match number 26 of the Indian Premier League at the Sawai Mansingh Stadium in Jaipur on Wednesday.

RR opened their campaign with a 7-run win over Sunrisers Hyderabad but lost to Punjab Kings by 5 runs and bounced back by defeating Delhi Capitals by 57 runs. They then defeated Chennai Super Kings (CSK) by 3 runs and beat Gujarat Titans (GT) by 3 wickets.

LSG, on the other hand, defeated Delhi Capitals (DC) by 50 runs and then lost to Chennai Super Kings (CSK) by 12 runs but bounced back by beating Sunrisers Hyderabad (SRH) by 5 wickets. They then defeated Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) by 1 wicket but lost to Punjab Kings by 2 wickets.

With three wins and two losses so far, LSG is a team overflowing with talent but they have missed a trick or two at times to find themselves on the losing side twice.

In the last match against the Punjab Kings, Lucknow couldn’t get enough runs in the middle overs, leaving them 10-15 runs short in the end.

While KL Rahul returning to form with a sizzling 56-ball 74 is a big positive, LSG will rue the scoring opportunities they squandered in the middle overs.

Lucknow have no dearth of power in their batting, with Kyle Mayers at the top and Nicholas Pooran and Marcus Stoinis in the middle capable of pulverising any opposition.

Orange Cap: Check Out Full List for Top Batters in Orange Cap Race

While Mayers did his job in the powerplay, he, perhaps, needs to think about building partnerships after the first six overs, especially with Deepak Hooda struggling to get runs at the top.

Against PBKS, LSG also committed the mistake of bringing in the talented Ravi Bishnoi too late, allowing the batters to take the chase deep into the final over.

Bishnoi is a wily customer with a mean googly, and skipper Rahul may think of using him in the middle as well, instead of holding him back for the death overs.

Krishnappa Gowtham and Krunal Pandya too have done well in their respective roles.

Among the fast bowlers, LSG possess the fiery pace of Mark Wood and Avesh Khan. Yudhvir Singh Charak too will look to carry on his good run after a sensational two-wicket haul on debut against Punjab.

However, for Lucknow, it will be an uphill task to disturb the applecart of the Royals, who have performed like a well-oiled machine with a hat-trick of wins to grab the top spot in the IPL standings.

RR possess a formidable batting line-up with the likes of Yashasvi Jaiswal, Jos Buttler and Sanju Samson ensuring that the side has a good start and has enough runs in the powerplay.

While Buttler, with 204 runs has been their highest run-scorer, Jaiswal has struck at 149.45 during his 136 runs so far in the IPL.

And, when the duo failed the other day against GT, skipper Samson rose to the occasion, bailing out the team with a 32-ball 60 as West Indian Shimron Hetmyer completed the job with a 26-ball 56.

Purple Cap: Check Out Full List for Top Bowlers in Purple Cap Race

Devdutt Padikkal too has come up with cameos but Riyan Parag hasn’t been able to grab the opportunities.

RR also has some quality spinners, with the trio of Yuzvendra Chahal, Adam Zampa and Ravichandran Ashwin making life difficult for the opposition.

It was the spinners who had won them the match against Chennai Super Kings, while pace spearhead Trent Boult did the job against Delhi Capital by taking those two wickets in the first over to derail their chase.

Medium pacer Sandeep Sharma too has used all his experience, taking wickets regularly during his spells.

Get the latest Cricket News, IPL 2023 Live Score, Orange Cap and Purple Cap holder details here