Newcastle Knights playmaker Jackson Hastings has slammed Premier League table-toppers Arsenal after a controversial video of players appearing to ignore a young mascot was shared on social media.

The Gunners posted the now-viral video on Twitter of their squad signing a shirt for one of their mascots outside the changing room before their 2-2 draw with West Ham on Sunday.

However, none of the players appeared to acknowledge the eight-year-old girl, Olivia Murray, as they passed on the pen despite her gazing at them in admiration.

Celebrities including Nick Knowles, Laura Woods and Piers Morgan took to social media to brand the players 'entitled, overpaid and rude'.

Knights star Hastings was also annoyed that the stars didn't appear to try and engage with the youngster.

'Really? I thought making memories would be for at least one of them having the decency to say 'hello' or acknowledge the young girl,' he posted on Twitter.

Hastings' followers were quick to comment and post photos of him going out of hiw way to stop and mingle with fans over the years.

'I remember when you stopped to say hello to my son before a Wigan Warriors game and made time for a picture too. He still talks about it,' wrote one follower alongside a photo of Hastings and her son.

'Still miss you here mate,' wrote another alongside a photo of Hastings smiling and being mobbed by happy fans.

'Still hands down the best day for Joshua coming down to @partridge_and with his Wigan kit. Still his idol and you always took the time with him, he'll never forget you #31,' replied another alongside a photo of Hastings and a young supporter.

The mascot's father has since leapt to the Arsenal players' defence - insisting the footage was just a 'small window' on her day.

He also shared a photo of her holding Martin Odegaard's hand.

'My daughter had a lovely time as Mascot for @Arsenal,' Mr Murray tweeted. 'There was only a small window to meet the players and she enjoyed it very much.

'Odegaard is her favourite player so to hold his hand onto the pitch was very special.'

A further clip has since emerged that appears to show players giving all the West Ham mascots a high-five as they went to line up in the tunnel ahead of kick-off.