JOB CONTEXT & PURPOSE (Brief summary of the position, i.e. why does the role exist?)

UK-Pakistan Serious Crime and Law Enforcement (UPSCALE) programme is an UK Government-funded programme. The programme is designed to support the governments of Pakistan and the UK in tackling issues of cross border crime and illicit finance that negatively impact both countries. The programme is due to start in March 2023 with a two-year duration, and the possibility of a further two year extension. The focus of programme impact is in Pakistan, with some activities likely in the UK.

The candidate will work as a Project Accountant on UPSCALE 2. She/he will carry out the financial management of the project and support the Senior Project Manager in project management tasks.

Understanding and constructing project structures within ASI finance systems to best meet stakeholder needs

Review of monthly billing transactions, with appropriate feedback mechanism

Project analysis as part of the month end process; WIP, profitability and budgetary variance

Lead contact for all external project audits within the allocated pool of projects

Provide PM performance feedback to support continuous improvement throughout the organization

Ensuring accurate and timely client invoicingFinancial management of the project i.e. budgeting, forecasting, reporting

Ensure project data is accurately and timely posting in the ERP (Sage Intacct)

Support SPM in client management in financial reporting matters

Relevant experience and proven track record in a corporate, highly professional environment – ideally international consultancy for at least 5 years. Candidates with knowledge of FCDO programmes will be given preference

Understanding of when and how to raise concerns

Knowledge of team goals and company vision and values

High level of emotional intelligence in the following areas: self-awareness, social awareness, self-management, relationship management.

Trustworthy and able to keep information confidential.

What We Offer You

As an employee-owned company, our people are at the heart of our strategy and our decisions. We offer a competitive salary and benefits package, a dynamic and friendly team environment, the opportunity to support a highly successful portfolio of programmes, and support to develop your skills and progress in your career.

The diversity of our workforce makes ASI a great place to work, more creative and resourceful, and underpins strong partnerships. We keep a sharp focus on diversity and inclusion, including through our Equality Action Plan and our Diversity and Inclusion Committee, and through leadership from our Executive Team and oversight by our Board.

We recognise the importance of your life outside of work. We are proud to support flexible working arrangements and commit to make a success of flexible working arrangements wherever possible. We’ve built a culture to reflect our values, full of likeminded professionals who are smart, passionate and great at what they do.

Please submit a CV (no more than 2 pages) via Corporate positions – Adam Smith International

Shortlisted applicants only will be contacted.

Deadline for Applications will be midnight 10 May 2023

ASI is committed to continually improving the diversity of our workforce through the attraction, retention, and development of a diverse range of talented people. We want people to be comfortable bringing their whole self to work and recognize that inclusion brings further opportunities for innovation and creativity.

Apply By:

Deadline for Applications will be midnight 10 May 2023