It’s that time of year again when Bangkok turns into a sauna, but don’t sweat it because Topgolf Megacity – the one-of-a-kind sports and entertainment complex – has got just the splashy lineup to help you cool off with their Songkran agenda! Packed with fun games, water splashing, DJ music, and delicious food, the Topgolf Songkran Party on April 14 and 15 will center around two juicy headlining events: a water-fighting extravaganza and a scrumptious BBQ buffet. And on top of Songkran celebrations, Topgolf’s keeping it chill with summer special game pay at THB550 on their climate-controlled hitting pays – where you’ll find year-round comfort, perfect respite from the outdoor heat!

Entrance to the two-day Songkran Party at Topgolf Megacity, which is located right next to Megabangna shopping center, runs from 11:30am until midnight – and get this, it’s free for everyone so it’s the perfect Songkran-themed outing whether you’re looking to celebrate with friends, family, or even a date. The party will take place in The Puttyard, where Topgolf will be hosting its water splash activity as a way to honor the tradition that serves as a symbol of respect and well-wishing, making it the perfect way to ring in the new year.

Food will be served all day long and DJs will spin from 6pm at this all-day, family-friendly event that will have you feeling like a kid again. You can live out your Super-Soaker dreams and get your water fight on in the spirit of Songkran or just chill out with some ice-cold beer while listening to some sick beats. It’s like a giant, wet playground for all ages! There will also be a variety of games ranging from Sao Noi Tok Nam (a summer carnival favorite: dunk tanks!) to the cowabunga-worthy Surf rider – yes, there is indeed a water-filled theme here!

But, if you’re not feeling the whole splish-splash vibe and grazing (or let’s be real, feasting) is more up your alley, the sizzling Summer BBQ Buffet is just the place for you. Think of it like a big festive picnic, minus the stereotypical soggy sandwiches. The all-you-can-eat a la carte buffet is THB850++ per person with lunch from 11:30am to 3pm and dinner from 6pm to 9:30pm. It’s a great bang for your baht considering not just the delicious quality of the food (we’ve talked about how awesome BUSTED!, Bangkok’s first and only food bus is here), but also with the volume of choices! Traditional BBQ favorites straight from the U. S.-imported smoker will be on the menu, along with Thai food (with sides aplenty to choose from!), and, of course, desserts at Patio and BUSTED!.

The grill menu will be stacked with killer options like the Busted Gai Yang (grilled chicken), Moo Ping (pork skewers), and grilled BBQ squid that really delivers a flavor-packed punch. And don’t sleep on the mouthwatering Thai food that’ll be at the buffet: Somtum Thai, Giew Thord Tom Yum, and just about everyone’s favorite, sticky rice. But wait, hope you’re not satiated just yet, because there’s actually more! Frankly, we could fill up on the sides alone: there will be so many to choose from, like mac ‘n cheese, garlic bread, corn on the cob, and salads galore for some freshness! And no, we don’t recommend skipping out on dessert – stretchy pants advised! On the sweets menu will be Tup Tim Krop with smoked coconut ice cream and mini donuts (cue unrelenting salivation).

Oh, but hey guys. The summer fun at Topgolf Megacity doesn’t stop with Songkran. If you haven’t checked out this top-notch entertainment complex yet, consider this your sign to see what it’s all about. Home to 102 hitting bays equipped with microchipped golf balls and interactive games, this place is seriously next-level. Prices start at just THB550++ per bay per hour, so you won’t break the bank while having a blast.

And as is clear from Topgolf’s special summer BBQ program, food factors in just as much as fun. The sports and entertainment hub really is a one-stop destination for play, food, and fun. There are five bars and restaurants to choose from on the premises, a Topgolf Academy, and notably, The Puttyard – the best 18-hole minigolf course in Bangkok.

Head here for more information about the Songkran Party event and related promotions.

Ready to book your game time, events, or golf lessons? Go here and prepare to have some serious fun. To stay up-to-date on all the latest and greatest happenings, you can follow Topgolf Thailand on Facebook and Instagram.