After Union Saint-Gilloise and Bayer Leverkusen drew 1-1 in the first leg, it’s all to play for in the return game in Belgium with a place in the Europa League semi-finals the reward for the winners.

Union SG were around eight minutes away from earning a 1-0 victory in Leverkusen last week after Victor Boniface gave them the lead early in the second half but Florian Wirtz struck late on for Bayer to ensure the first leg ended level.

The Belgian side have enjoyed another fantastic campaign. They are second in their domestic division ahead of the end-of-season play-offs, so will fancy their chances of taking another Bundesliga scalp as they look to knock out Xabi Alonso’s side after dumping out Union Berlin in the previous round.

Bet on Union Saint-Gilloise vs Bayer Leverkusen with Betfred Here

Union SG defender Siebe Van der Heyden is suspended after he was booked last week, so either Koki Machida or Ross Sykes will replace him at the back.

Winger Simon Adingra, on loan from Brighton, will hope to start after he was left on the bench in the first leg, while Cameron Puertas is also pushing for inclusion.

Leverkusen are without Patrik Schick, Exequiel Palacios, Charles Aranguiz and Andrey Lunev through injury, while first-leg goalscorer Wirtz is tipped to return to the starting line-up after he was named on the bench for the weekend 0-0 draw at Wolfsburg.

Jonathan Tah, Amine Adli and Callum-Hudson Odoi are other options for Alonso if he decides to make more changes from Sunday’s Bundesliga game.

Leverkusen are the favourites at 11/10 to win the second leg but Union SG proved in the previous round against Union Berlin that they are side to be feared.

After drawing 3-3 away in the first leg in the last 16 – when they were 3-2 up before a late Union Berlin equaliser – they then ran out 3-0 victors back on Belgian soil to progress.

Karel Geraerts’ side host Leverkusen at Anderlecht’s Lotto Park, where they enjoyed that win over Union Berlin, and while a repeat of such a comfortable success is unlikely, they can shock another German opponent, with a 1-0 victory appealing at odds of 11/1 in the correct score market.

Union SG skipper Teuma appears to be good value at 10/3 to get on the scoresheet as he’s likely to be on penalty duty for Geraerts’ side and he’s already notched three goals in this season’s Europa League.

Teuma is a key creative force for Union as he has 14 assists in all competitions to go alongside his 13 goals all told and he will probably have to play a key role if the Belgian outfit are to go through.

1st bet on sports of £10+ in one transaction at evens (2.0)+ settled within 7 days of registering.

£30 paid in free bets within 10 hours of bet settlement, 7-day expiry. Payment restrictions apply.