DEREK McINNES’ red-card rage has come back to bite him.

The fuming Kilmarnock boss insisted Celtic striker Oh Hyeon-gyu should have been banished in the second-half of the champions’ runaway 4-1 win at Rugby Park on Sunday.

McInnes was incensed the South Korean international, a half-time substitute for Kyogo Furuhashi, had got away with just a booking following a high-boot challenge on Liam Donnelly.

Megamouth McInnes let fly shortly after the final whistle that left his struggling side just above the automatic relegation trapdoor.

HIGH CHALLENGE…Oh Hyeon-gyu attempts to bring the ball under control while Kilmarnock’s Liam Donnelly challenges for possession. The home side’s manager Derek McInnes insisted the Celtic striker should have seen red.

CQN insisted yesterday that it was NOT a dangerous action from the Hoops forward and we drew a comparison from a similar clash at Parkhead earlier in the season when Dundee United’s Craig Sibbald caught Giorgos Giakoumakis flush in the face with the sole of his boot.

The referee who saw the incident and took absolutely no action was David Dickinson, the same match official who flashed a yellow card at Oh.

McInnes overlooked the deficiencies in his own team that had surrendered four goals in a 20-minute whirlwind spell to comment on the Celtic player. but his wayward claims have been shot down.

Former English Premier League whistler Dermot Gallagher, speaking to Sky Sports, said: “He (Oh) doesn’t lead with the studs, he doesn’t see the player coming, so yellow card for me.

“I think the referee has got it absolutely right.

“Careless is free-kick only, reckless is free-kick yellow card and dangerous free-kick red card.

“I think that is reckless, it’s not a boot in the head, is it? It is a boot that may hit his head, but it didn’t.”

BOOKED…Oh Hyeon-gyu looks astonished as referee David Dickinson fashes the yellow card.

Former Celtic striker Andy Walker told Go Radio: “It would have been ridiculous had Oh been sent off.

“There was no aggressive motion, no violent conduct, there was actually no connection. A yellow card was sufficient.”

And media pundit Michael Stewart, speaking to BBC Sportscene, continued: “It’s not a red card, but I know why the Kilmarnock players are up in arms because obviously [Kyle] Vassell got sent off against Hibs for something very similar.

“You could see him coming in almost demonstrating that. I don’t think it’s a red card and I don’t think Vassell should have been sent off at Easter Road, either, but I can understand why Kilmarnock are upset about it.”