Penn State is sitting at No. 10 in the 247Sports Composite Team Recruiting Rankings after landing a couple top targets in the last week in Belle Vernon (Pa.) High Top247 athlete Quinton Martin and a defensive back they absolutely covet in Jacksonville (Fla.) Mandarin’s Antoine Belgrave-Shorter.

It’s well documented now that the 6-foot-2, 200-pound Martin will begin his career in the backfield, an athletic, long playmaker that can not only run between the tackles but a player you can create possible matchup problems with in the passing game. In addition to the history of talented running backs that have suited up in the James Franklin era, the Nittany Lions boast one of the best running back tandems in college football heading into the fall and position coach Ja’Juan Seider is looking to reload his room this cycle and would like another difference-maker at the position. Perhaps that’s Top247 running back Corey Smith who is visiting this weekend, or Top247 running back Stacy Gage who was on campus last weekend and has a running style similar to that of sophomore Kaytron Allen. There is some buzz around Smith and PSU. Penn State is also in it for guys like Top247 running back Peyton Lewis out of Virginia who at one point looked like a lean towards State College. Jordan Lyle out of St. Thomas Aquinas in Fort Lauderdale and Nate Frazier from powerhouse Santa Ana (Calif.) Mater Dei are two more having regular dialogue with Seider and company.

The 6-foot, 180-pound Belgrave-Shorter is a playmaker in the secondary and the third defensive back to jump in the fold alongside prep teammate Jon Mitchell and Philadelphia (Pa.) Imhotep’s Kenneth Woseley. Spots are filling up fast in the defensive backfield moving forward with no shortage of talent eyeing Happy Valely including Top247 cornerback Aaron Scott, Tampa (Fla.) Catholic athlete Jameer Grimsley (who is very high on the Big Ten program), 247Sports Composite four-star Vaboue Toure out of Irvington (NJ.) High and Jaylen McClain another 247Sports Composite four-star out of West Orange (NJ) Seton Hall Prep.

Penn State could take two quarterbacks this cycle. They’re trending on the 247Sports Crystal Ball for Michael Van Buren out of Baltimore (Md.) St. Frances but will have to hold off Oregon and Maryland. They’re a finalist for Philadelphia (Pa.) St. Joseph Prep passer Samaj Jones and they’re trying to make a move with Florida State commit Luke Kromenhoek. The Nittany Lions just had Kromenhoek back on campus but he returns to Florida State this weekend for the spring game and he will be a tough flip for Franklin and company.

Receiver continues to be a point of emphasis for the staff and in-state targets in four-star Rico Scott and Brandon Rehmann are major targets, and Top247 athlete Josiah Brown from New York, Top247 receiver Keylen Adams from Virginia and receiver Jaylan Hornsby who was just on campus are three other guys they’re in great shape for. This could end up being one of the best receiver classes in the Big Ten.

Penn State is going to battle Michigan for Top247 tight end Brady Prieskorn and see what happens. They already have Luke Reynolds in the fold.

The offensive line could be a really good haul with Top247 offensive lineman Cooper Cousins already committed and guys like Kevin Heywood and Garrett Sexton being a couple other priority targets Phil Trautwein has the program in good shape for. Top247 offensive lineman Grant Brix was just on campus.

Obviously five-star edge Dylan Stewart is as coveted guy there is in the 2024 cycle, and he was recently on campus. Penn State is considered the program to beat for four-star edge Jaylen Harvey while in-state edge Mylachi Williams is one the Nittany Lions are in strong shape for. Freakishly strong Top247 defensive lineman Benedict Umeh and edge Xavier Gilliam are two more I could ultimately see in the class.

Five-star linebacker Jamonta Waller loved his visit to Penn State in the winter and The Nittany Lions grabbed the lead at that point and will now aim to hold off all the SEC programs for the Mississippi native. Franklin and company would love to add him to Anthony Speca and Kari Jackson who’s already in the fold.

Coming off a Rose Bowl win, the third New Year’s Six victory of the Franklin era, a Top 10 season and College Football aspirations this fall, the momentum of this program is carrying over in a big way on the recruiting trail.