Nomad Foods (NYSE:NOMD – Get Rating) and Steakholder Foods (NASDAQ:STKH – Get Rating) are both consumer staples companies, but which is the superior business? We will compare the two businesses based on the strength of their analyst recommendations, earnings, dividends, risk, institutional ownership, profitability and valuation.

Nomad Foods has a beta of 0.74, indicating that its stock price is 26% less volatile than the S&P 500. Comparatively, Steakholder Foods has a beta of 1.38, indicating that its stock price is 38% more volatile than the S&P 500.

78.5% of Nomad Foods shares are owned by institutional investors. Comparatively, 8.1% of Steakholder Foods shares are owned by institutional investors. Strong institutional ownership is an indication that hedge funds, endowments and large money managers believe a stock will outperform the market over the long term.

This table compares Nomad Foods and Steakholder Foods’ net margins, return on equity and return on assets.

This is a breakdown of current ratings and price targets for Nomad Foods and Steakholder Foods, as reported by MarketBeat.com.

Nomad Foods presently has a consensus target price of $22.00, indicating a potential upside of 17.58%. Steakholder Foods has a consensus target price of $3.00, indicating a potential upside of 400.37%. Given Steakholder Foods’  higher possible upside, analysts plainly believe Steakholder Foods is more favorable than Nomad Foods.

This table compares Nomad Foods and Steakholder Foods’ revenue, earnings per share (EPS) and valuation.

Nomad Foods has higher revenue and earnings than Steakholder Foods. Steakholder Foods is trading at a lower price-to-earnings ratio than Nomad Foods, indicating that it is currently the more affordable of the two stocks.

Nomad Foods beats Steakholder Foods on 9 of the 11 factors compared between the two stocks.

Nomad Foods Ltd. operates as a holding company, which manufactures and sells frozen foods for human consumption. The firm offers its products under the brands LUTOSA, la Cocinera, Birds Eye, Iglo, and Findus. The company was founded by Noam Gottesman and Sir Martin E. Franklin on April 1, 2014 and is headquartered in Middlesex, the United Kingdom.

Steakholder Foods Ltd., a deep-tech food company, engages in the development of cultivated meat technologies to manufacture cultivated meat without animal slaughter. The company develops a three-dimensional bioprinter to deposit layers of differentiated stem cells, scaffolding, and cell nutrients in a three-dimensional form of structured cultured meat. It intends to license its production technology; provide associated products, such as cell lines, printheads, bioreactors, and incubators; and offer services, such as technology implementation, training, and engineering support directly and through contractors to food processing and food retail companies. The company is headquartered in Rehovot, Israel.

Receive News & Ratings for Nomad Foods Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Nomad Foods and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter.