C# 12 has introduced a new source generator feature that allows developers to generate C# code at compile time. This new feature can help improve performance and efficiency in your applications by reducing the amount of code you need to write manually and generating optimized code tailored to your specific needs.

In this article, we will explore how to use C# 12's Source Generators to improve performance and efficiency in your applications.

Source Generators are a new feature in C# 12 that allows you to generate C# code at compile time. Source Generators work by analyzing your code and generating additional source code compiled with your application.

Source Generators can be used to generate code that reduces the amount of boilerplate code you need to write or to generate optimized code tailored to your specific needs. For example, Source Generators can be used to generate code that performs serialization, deserialization, or data validation.

Using Source Generators in C# 12 is relatively easy. Here are the steps to follow,

Create a new C# project in Visual Studio 2022 and target .NET 6.0 or later.

Create a new class that implements the ISourceGenerator interface. This interface has a single method called, which is called by the compiler to generate source code.

[Generator]

public class MySourceGenerator : ISourceGenerator

public void Execute(GeneratorExecutionContext context)

// Generate source code here

public void Initialize(GeneratorInitializationContext context)

// Initialize the generator here

Add the [Generator] attribute to your class to indicate that it is a Source Generator.

Implement the Execute method to generate your source code. The GeneratorExecutionContext parameter provides information about the code being compiled, which can be used to generate code tailored to your specific needs.

Implement the Initialize method to initialize your generator. This method is called once when your generator is first loaded.

Register your Source Generator in the Initialize method using the context. RegisterSourceGenerator method.

public void Initialize(GeneratorInitializationContext context)

context.RegisterSourceGenerator(new MySourceGenerator());

Build your project, and your Source Generator will generate code at compile time.

Source Generators can be used in many ways to improve your applications' performance and efficiency. Here are some examples:

Source Generators can be used to generate serialization codes for your classes. This can be particularly useful when working with large data sets or when performance is critical.

[Serializable]

public partial class MyClass

public string Name { get; set; }

public int Age { get; set; }

A Source Generator can be used to generate the serialization code for this class, which can be much faster and more efficient than reflection or other techniques.

Source Generators can be used to generate validation codes for your classes. This can be particularly useful when working with complex data sets or when data integrity is critical.

public partial class MyClass

public string Name { get; set; }

public int Age { get; set; }

[Required]

public string Email { get; set; }

A Source Generator can be used to generate validation code for this class, ensuring that the data is always valid and preventing errors.

Source Generators can also be used to generate mapping code for your classes. This can be particularly useful when you have many classes that need to be mapped to each other and want to reduce the amount of boilerplate code you need to write.

public class Person

public string Name { get; set; }

public int Age { get; set; }

public class PersonDto

public string Name { get; set; }

public int Age { get; set; }

A Source Generator can generate mapping code between these two classes, saving you time and reducing the risk of errors.

Using Source Generators in your C# applications can provide several benefits, including-

* Improved performance and efficiency by generating optimized code at compile time

* Reduced boilerplate code, which can make your code easier to read and maintain

* Improved code quality by generating code that is tailored to your specific needs

* Reduced risk of errors by generating code that is less prone to human error

C# 12's Source Generators are a powerful new feature that can help improve performance and efficiency in your C# applications. Whether you need to generate serialization code, validation code, mapping code, or any other type of code, Source Generators can help reduce the amount of boilerplate code you need to write and generate optimized code tailored to your specific needs.

If you haven't already, try Source Generators in your next C# project and see how they can help improve your development experience.