Looking at some recent data on childhood poverty after the worst parts of the pandemic is sobering. In America, the official poverty line is based on a hypothetical food budget and the size of the family. As it costs more to feed a family, the poverty level increases. As the number of people in the household increases, the higher the poverty level. In 2022, the poverty line for an American family of four was about $26,000. The median household income in Connecticut is $83,572. Trying to live in this state for even twice the national poverty level would be difficult.

In a country of over 330 million, we have over 12 million children (about three and half times the population of Connecticut) living in poverty. Of these children about 4.5 million are Hispanic, 4.2 million are white, and 2.8 million are Black.

During the pandemic, the Biden administration enacted several emergency programs to keep American families afloat. The extensive list of programs included stimulus checks, child tax credit expansions, free school meals, increased Women, Infant, and Children grants, subsidized COBRA, expanded Medicaid coverage, foreclosure moratoriums, eviction moratoriums, rental assistance, and required paid leave to name a few of the pandemic income assistance programs.

Because of the emergency programs, childhood poverty in this country declined. However, with the economy mostly recovered, many of these programs are scheduled to be eliminated or dramatically curtailed. And with this return to prepandemic anti-poverty programs, childhood poverty will increase. The obvious question is: why do we tolerate the level of childhood poverty in America, when it is so clear that we can eliminate childhood poverty in America?

The challenge of eliminating childhood poverty is one of priorities and faulty thinking. The faulty thinking is based on a partial truth that is as old as the Bible: ” The poor you will always have among you.” (Mark 14:7). I would argue the real moral dilemma is that the super wealthy are the ones that will always be in our midst. One need not be a Biblical scholar or even a believer to conclude that Jesus was correct that relative poverty or inequality will always exist. The fact that relative poverty exists among humans — some people, regardless of how society is organized, will have, or take more than others — has led to the faulty reasoning that we cannot end the suffering associated with absolute poverty.

Another area of faulty reasoning that prevents us from having this serious conversation about the elimination of childhood poverty is that we somehow need poor people to serve as an example, reminding the rest of us to continue to work hard so that we do not end up like them. This faulty view of human behavior ignores the reality that the poor neither choose to be poor, nor to serve as examples of human frailty.

Absolute childhood poverty in America is now a choice. We chose during the pandemic to support families who could not go to work to support themselves because we feared that society could collapse under the weight of a global pandemic. And now we choose to return to an America that tolerates childhood hunger, disease, ignorance, and despair.

The Connecticut organization Connecticut Voices for Children recently completed a study (Cost and Distributional Estimates of the Governor’s Major Tax Proposals FY 24-25) on state and federal policies that impact children’s poverty. Gov. Lamont has proposed tax policies that would increase the state’s child-tax credit, the earned income tax credit, and several other programs to offset the reduction in some of the pre-pandemic income security programs. These changes need to be enacted. But the biggest impact we can have on absolute childhood poverty in Connecticut and America would be to reprioritize federal spending.

Bridgeport police break up unauthorized car show at Seaside Park — 'It was chaos'

Police: CT man jumped to his death off Route 8 overpass after causing Naugatuck head-on crash

7 cute villages and hamlets in CT to explore this spring

CT rescue pit bull that was almost euthanized goes viral, gets adopted

CT man killed in shootout with police after roulette wheel dispute at MGM casino, report shows

It is almost sacrilegious to question the Defense Department budget in times of war or peace, but we cannot ignore the following realities: in fiscal year 2023, the Department of Defense’s budget was $817 billion while the pandemic era child tax credit was $67 billion and is scheduled to go back to $18 billion in three years. We are flexible with childhood poverty, but the military budget only goes up. The U. S.S. Gerald Ford, one of the nation’s newest aircraft carriers cost $13 billion more than five times the amount allocated to the extraordinarily successful federal Earned Income Tax Credit program.

I learned in Economics 101 that societies make choices between guns and butter. The more guns you have the less butter you can have and vice versa. It is within our grasp to eliminate childhood poverty. The only thing stopping us now is the will to do it.

Fred McKinney is the co-founder of BJM Solutions, an economic consulting firm that conducts public and private research since 1999, and is the emeritus director of the Peoples Center for Innovation and Entrepreneurship at Quinnipiac University.