The Denver Nuggets (54-29, 46-37-0 ATS) handily dispatched the Minnesota Timberwolves (43-42, 40-43-0 ATS) in Game 1 of this series, which wasn’t very competitive. It was the fifth time in a row that the home team won against these two teams.

On Wednesday night at 10:00 p.m. EST, we’ll get to witness how game two goes. Ball Arena in Denver will be primed and ready for action once again.

The advantage of having a 29-point lead entering the fourth quarter is that you can afford to rest key players, especially when the opposing team never threatens to make it close again.

In what turned out to be a low-scoring game, Jamal Murray was the only player on either side to score more than 20 points.

Jamal Murray also finished two rebounds and two assists shy of a triple-double while posting a game-high +24 differential.

Denver earned the top seed in the Western Conference thanks to Nikola Jokic, who led the team to fifth in offensive rating.

Due to a right wrist sprain, Jokic is questionable for Wednesday’s game against the Timberwolves.

Despite participating in practice on Tuesday and claiming that his wrist is fine, the Nuggets have listed Jokic as questionable.

While it appears likely that the superstar big man will be upgraded to available, if Jokic is forced to sit, Zeke Nnaji and Thomas Bryant will see extended minutes.

The Timberwolves offense was bad on Sunday, and they weren’t up against a strong defense.

Anthony Edwards led the team with 18 points and five assists, but Minnesota only scored 80 points as a team.

It happens to every team at some point, but it’s especially bad during a playoff game.

To be sure, scoring wasn’t Minnesota’s strong suit this season, as the team finished 23rd in offensive rating.

Defense is a different story, with the Timberwolves finishing 10th in defensive rating, one spot ahead of the Nuggets.

The injury to Jaden McDaniels in the final regular season game of the season was a significant blow to the Wolves. Throughout the season, he was their top wing defender.

McDaniels has been suspended indefinitely by Minnesota.

This season, the third-year forward has been an important part of Minnesota’s starting lineup, averaging 12.1 points, 3.9 rebounds, 1.9 assists, and 1.9 steals-plus-blocks in 30.6 minutes across 79 games (all starts).

Due to back spasms, Rudy Gobert is questionable for Game 2 of the Western Conference First Round against the Nuggets on Wednesday.

Gobert is still dealing with a back injury, but he was able to play on Sunday. While the big man will almost certainly make every effort to take the stage.

If he is unable to play, Kyle Anderson, Taurean Prince, and Nathan Knight will all see increased playing time.