Christiano Ronaldo's daughter recently turned one, and the football legend took to his Instagram page to celebrate his daughter's special day with his 577 million followers.

Christiano, regarded as one of the greatest footballers of all time, is a proud father to six children. The 38-year-old recently celebrated his daughter's first birthday by paying her a sweet tribute on his Instagram page.

The football legend shared a cute photo holding his daughter Bella Esmeralda dressed in a black sweater and a white blouse, alongside a heartwarming caption written in Portuguese.

The translation to English read: "Congratulations on your first year of life, my love. Daddy loves you so much!" Esmeralda was born on April 18, 2022. She is the daughter of Cristiano and his partner Georgina Rodríguez. She is the surviving twin sister of the couple's late baby boy, who died in 2022 while still an infant.

The couple announced their loss and Esmeralda's arrival in a joint statement shared on their Instagram pages which some of it read: "It is with the deepest sadness that we announce the passing of our baby. Only the birth of our baby girl gives us the strength to live this moment with some hope and happiness."

Despite the fame and money, Christiano once said his greatest privilege is becoming a parent and raising his family. The Portuguese is a father of six children whom he loves and adores.

The soccer star welcomed his first child Christiano Jr on June 17, 2010, but has never disclosed the identity of the boy's mother. Seven years later, Christiano welcomed a set of twins Mateo and Eva via surrogate in June 2017.

When the twins arrived, Christiano Ronaldo was already in a relationship with his now partner, Rodriguez. The couple welcomed their first child together the same year in November 2017. In October 2021, Christiano announced that his partner Rodriguez was pregnant with twins.

The former Manchester United soccer player shared the news with fans alongside a photo of him and Rodriguez holding the ultrasound photos. Unfortunately, one of the twins didn't make it; he was survived by his twin sister, Esmeralda.