What is public health? Lets start by breaking down the phrase.

Public (pub-lic) adjective; of or concerning the people as a whole.

I like to think the main aspect of public health as community. There are many things that can make up the profession of public health but everything relates back to community. The goals, effects, and outcomes are focused on the betterment of communities at every level, both large and small.

Health noun; the state of being free from illness or injury.

This aspect of public health seems pretty straightforward however, there are a lot of different things that can affect our health other than disease. There are aspects of environment and behavior that can lead to disease or injury. This is where we put both words together and create the concept of public health.

The profession of public health takes a step back from looking at an individual experience. Professionals in this field look to address negative health outcomes before they occur. Lead in water, recommendations for food groups and exercise duration, health care policies for insurance, social programs that provide housing or financial support can all fall under the umbrella of public health. Public health looks to help improve the health and quality of life of a community.

I think the importance of public health can be seen through its expansive variability. This profession and its focuses are as multifaceted as the communities we live in and that is what I think makes it so effective.

An area of public health that really excites me, and in fact is what I’m studying, is Health Promotion Health Behavior. This area of public health is focused on taking all the scientific jargon and translating it to the general public, the creation of programs to address health disparities, issues, and crisis, and so much more.  You can see this work in things like media campaigns about physical activity or breast cancer screenings; Or in summer lunch programs for kids, food banks/pantries for the food insecure, and shelters for the domestically abused or houseless.

What is included as a study of public health or public health issue can be anything that effects a community.  Public health can be involved on every level of interaction from one on one at vaccine clinics to writing legislative policy for air quality. The work done by public health professionals impacts everyone in a community to some degree and most don’t even realize.

To learn more about the profession of public health visit: https://www.cdcfoundation.org/what-public-health