The 2023 NHL playoffs are here! This is where I will break down each series briefly, who I think will win, and what will be the deciding factor in each series. If you were to parlay all 8 of my picks it is around +9700 which is 97 dollars for every dollar you bet. It goes without saying, it is a longshot. Remember that DFSarmy.com has industry leading NHL content with a new and improved Domination Station to give you a serious edge on the competition. With that said, let’s get to my picks.

To no one’s surprise here I am taking the Bruins to win this one in around 5 games or so. The Bruins are literally better at every position on the ice. They are deeper, and have the far superior defense and goaltending. I could see someone like Tyler Bertuzzi or Charlie Coyle being a pain for the Panthers to deal with in this series.

It is a little scary to do, but I have to take the Leafs here. Honestly if Tanner Jeannot was healthy, I would have paused a little more, because that guy will be a playoff hockey problem. The Leafs have rested a little, Matthews heated up towards the end of the year, and the addition of Noel Acciari and Ryan O’Reilly give the Leafs a huge boost in their bottom 6. The Lightning’s core have been to 3 straight Cup Finals, and that team is a year older and more banged up than usual going into the playoffs. The Leafs I think take this series in 6 and finally win a playoff series.

Here is my first real upset of the playoffs; I am going with the Islanders in a 7 game slog of a series, and let me tell you why. There are a few tricky things going on here, but firstly and lastly I think Ilya Sorokin can steal a couple of games in this series. Andrei Svechnikov is out for the season in Carolina, and even though they still won the Metropolitan division without him, that loss will cost them a couple of costly goals in what will most likely be a low-scoring sloppy series. Another big factor is going to be if Mathew Barzal is able to come back at some point in this series. The Islanders pretty much climbed through the standings without Barzal. I think if he comes back he can just make plays on the wing either on Bo Horvat or Brock Nelson’s line. I give the Islanders the edge at goalie and forward depth, and I think they can score a couple of timely goals to squeak them past Carolina.

New Jersey Devils vs New York Rangers

Going with the more experienced team here in the Rangers. The Devils may be the youngest and fastest team in the playoffs, and could even take this to 7 games. This series may have some goal production in it, even though I think Igor Shesterkin in the playoffs pushes the Rangers in a big way. This Rangers team lost in the Eastern Conference finals last year, have basically the same core, and added Patrick Kane and Vladimir Tarasenko. Kane and Tarasenko have a combined 4 Stanley Cups in their careers, and can still play at a high level. The Devils could certainly win this series with their speed, strength, and skill; however, the Rangers simply have too many ways to beat you, and have Igor Shesterkin to lean on as well. The Devils will be contenders for a long time to come, but fall short this year.

2 of the best home ice venues in the league square off here, and I am actually picking another upset in this round. This veteran Jets team is built for the playoffs with a Vezina caliber goaltender in Connor Hellebuyck, as well as a very scary top powerplay unit. We will see if Mark Stone can play, but if not I could see the Jets possibly even closing this out at home in a game 6 situation. I simply just like how the Jets are built, and I see a sizable goaltending advantage here for the Jets. Watch for special teams to play a deciding factor here, with Pierre-Luc Dubois having a monster series as well.

I absolutely love the this Kraken team, and they are built for the playoffs; however, I cannot see them beating the Avalanche without home ice in the first round. The Avalanche have a sizeable advantage in net as well as on the blueline, and young pending rookie of tthe year aint ready for the playoff smoke from Nathan Mackinnon. The Kraken are coming along, but give me the Avalanche in 5. Let Gabriel Landeskog rest up and let him come in on round 2.

Edmonton Mcdavids in 6. I understand that this series went 7 games last year, but McDavid is even better, he has even better chemistry with Zach Hyman and Evander Kane, and the addition of Mattias Ekholm is elite. I have McDavid in 6 without looking back; the Oilers have been the hottest team in the NHL heading into the playoffs.

Stars in 6 or 7 for me here. I like what Filip Gustavsson and Marc-Andre Fleury have done in net for the Wild, but Jake Oettinger is better, and all the Stars have to do i neutalize Kirill Kaprizov in a few games in order to win this series. The Stars are slightly better at every position in my opinion, and each team has a young superstar. I like Jake Oettinger, I like the Stars blueline, I like the Stars depth, and I like that they have home ice. I’m grabbing the Stars without much hesitation.

First Deposit Match Up To $100 with code

Signup for any season-long package to qualify!