Russell Westbrook and Kawhi Leonard almost did the unthinkable in Game 2 of the Western Conference’s first round of Playoffs. Even without Paul George, they had caught the Suns right by their neck once again, but this time let the game slip away in the second half. And Skip Bayless’ Twitter handle was as usual, right on it.

The refs love Westbrook as much as LeBron once did.

Brodie set the Clippers well in the first quarter, momentum-wise when he spiked Kevin Durant’s jumper with the scores tied at just 5-5. The first quarter ended with the Clippers having a 5-point lead.

They extended that lead to double-digits in the second quarter. However, the Suns bounced right back, going on an 11-2 run, and by the end of the second, they were tied at 59 each.

From then on, they did not let the game slip away out of their reach, led by the two man-show of Devin Booker and KD. But it wasn’t their brilliance that amazed Skip Bayless as much as Westbrook’s few mistakes in the fourth quarter.

The veteran Fox Sports analyst has not kept his hatred for Brodie since his time in the other LA franchise started back in 2021. The 71-year-old went ballistic on him after the Clippers lost Game 2 by a score line of 123-109, despite having all the chances of going 2-0 in the series.

“Right on schedule, Westbrook turned it over 3 times in the 4th quarter, along with missing a wide-open dunk. Worst hands of any point guard ever,” Tweeted Bayless.

Right on schedule, Westbrook turned it over 3 times in the 4th quarter, along with missing a wide-open dunk. Worst hands of any point guard ever.

It’s not something new for the 9x All-Star to turn the ball over in important situations. He is one of the all-time leaders in turnovers. Despite that, the Clippers still went for him because of the positives in his game.

Kawhi Leonard as we all know, would deliver on the big stage no matter what. But Westbrook showing up on both ends is the reason why Clippers have a chance in this series.

Apart from his 3 turnovers in the 4th Tuesday night, Westbrook didn’t have any in the game. He also rectified his last game’s 3/19 efficiency by putting up 28 points shooting 9/16 from the field and 2 off 3 from the 3-point line.

He was more efficient in both those categories than even Leonard.

Honestly, the Clips would neither win Game 1 without the 2017 MVP nor would they be competitive in Game 2 if it wasn’t for Westbrook’s grit. So, as usual, Bayless, I believe, is just doing it for clicks.

Or he wants to secretly motivate Russ so that he brings his best self and helps win both the games in LA. Skip is a Clippers fan, after all.