Your roof is a major investment in your home, one that will cost a lot to have replaced. Once you’ve had a new roof installed, you’ll want it to last as long as possible. That’s where roofing inspections and maintenance come in. Spring roofing is the best time to give your roof the once over and ensure it’s in good condition.

Here’s what you need to know.

Firstly, why should you be doing regular roofing inspections? Once that roof has been installed, it should be able to withstand the worst that the weather can throw at it, within reason. However, heavy storms and other factors can damage the roof, and you’ll want to be on alert for any damage.

If damage happens, such as shingles being pulled free by wind, then that leaves your roof open to water damage. Rain water can get in through that gap, causing leaks, mold, rot, and more. This is why you want to be inspecting your roof regularly, to spot any damage that may have occurred.

The sooner you spot the damage, the sooner that it can be put right. That ensures that the risk of ongoing damage is minimized. You’ll also find that it’s much cheaper too, as the repairs will be a smaller and easier job to handle. Call a roofer as soon as you spot damage, to ensure that it gets handled.

So you know that inspection and maintenance on your roof is important, but why would you want to do this in the spring, specifically? The most important reason is that coming out of the winter season, there could well be damage to your roof. High winds, heavy rain, sleet and hailstorms can all do a number on the roof.

If you try to inspect your roof during the winter though, it can be hard to spot the damage. Heavy snow settled on the roof, for example, will mask any damage. The same occurs if there’s an ice dam, as you won’t be able to see the damage underneath.

In the spring though, you have much better conditions for inspection and maintenance. As snow melts and the weather dries up, you’ll be able to see what damage has occurred much more easily. Any debris that has piled up, such as leaves, can easily be cleared away too for inspection.

There’s also the fact that spring offers much better weather for repairs. In the winter, the weather is too cold and wet for roof repairs to be done safely. In the early spring, you have better conditions so the repairs can be done to the highest standard.

You can do your own roof inspection, using the guide below. If you do see any damage that needs addressing, it’s important to call your roofer right away. Having a roofer handle the repairs is always the safest option, and so it’s worth the cost of hiring them. Plus, they’ll be able to accurately diagnose the problem and put it right.

You can also hire your local roofer for you to do the inspection itself. That’s peace of mind for a lot of homeowners, and something that you’ll want to consider.

When it comes to costs, remember that a repair that’s left too long, or done inexpertly, will cost a lot more down the line to put right. In some cases, it may even require you to have a new roof installed. When you hire a roofer you’ll actually be preventing these large costs, by having an expert handle them in the first instance.

With all this in mind, you’ll now need to know how to inspect your roof, and ensure that it’s in good condition in the spring. Here’s what you’ll need to do when looking for any potential repairs:

Inspect the roof from the ground: The first thing to do is take a look at your roof, and see if there’s any obvious damage. This is something that you want to do from the ground, as this is the safest way of checking your roof out. If you want to get a closer look, you can examine the roof using binoculars.

Look for any signs of damage, such as flashing coming loose, or missing roofing shingles. If you see any damage, you’ll want to handle that right away. Small repairs such as replacing shingles can be done yourself, but it’s often best to call a roofer to help you.

Clear the gutters: Over the winter, debris such as leaves will have blown into your gutters. That can often lead to to ice dams, as water can’t drain away and so freezes in your gutters. Use a trash bag to clean away leaves, and while you do so look for any signs of damage from ice dams the previous winter.

Check out the attic: Once you’ve looked outside, you’ll want to take a look inside the roof too. Get into your attic, and take a look around. You’re looking for any spots of light coming through the roof, as that will show you where shingles are missing. You should also look for any signs of mold or wood rot, as these will be evidence of leaks and need to be addressed as soon as possible.

Call a roofer: If you have spotted any damage to your roof, you’ll want to call a roofer as soon as you can. The sooner they can come and repair it for you, the easier and cheaper it will be. In many cases, you’ll be able to make a claim on your home insurance for your repairs too.

It’s critical that you inspect and take advantage of spring roofing, and do any necessary repairs at this time. The sooner you do it the better, so get out there and take a look at your roof now. If you would like more information, contact the professionals at Piedmont Roofing today!

And if you live in Virginia areas such as Middleburg, Winchester, Leesburg, or Warrenton, we’ll be happy to help you with your metal roofing needs.