Engineers are set to start five consecutive days of vital work on the line between Norwich and Lowestoft.

The works will run from Saturday 22 April until the end of Wednesday 26 April and will help to reinforce reliability. Bus replacement will operate throughout this time.

The Norwich - Great Yarmouth line will also be affected on Saturday 22 April and Sunday 23 April, meaning that buses will replace trains right across the Wherry Lines this coming weekend.

Major work is set to take place on the two lines, including:

* Replacing half a mile of ballast between the Sheringham branch line junction and Brundall station. The ballast, which is the stones that support the track, has been badly affected by a previous flood and the heatwave last summer. This has caused issues with the track which can mean trains have to slow down, especially in hot weather. The new ballast will safeguard the reliability of the track and improve the ride quality for passengers.

* Replacing more than half a mile of worn-out track at Cantley. Track replacement is essential for minimising faults that can cause delays.

* Re-surfacing level crossings around Somerleyton. This will make the crossings easier and safer to use for local people, and help to minimise risk to the railway.

Buses will also replace trains on the Norwich-Lowestoft line on Sunday 30 April and during the morning of Sunday 21 May because of follow-up work.

On the Sheringham branch line this Sunday 23 April, engineers will be continuing work on two level crossing upgrades, meaning that there will be bus replacement between Norwich and Sheringham / Cromer. Once the project is completed later this year, the crossings will have automatic barriers so that users don’t have to phone the signaller to request access. This will help to boost both safety and performance.

Passengers are advised to check their specific journey before they travel at www.greateranglia.co.uk or www.nationalrail.co.uk

During the period of the works, level crossing closures will affect vehicle users, pedestrians and cyclists. Network Rail is liaising with local communities about the impact of the closures and putting alternative arrangements in place.

Mark Walker, Network Rail Anglia route infrastructure engineer, said: “This work really needs doing to keep trains running whatever the weather. In addition, we’re improving level crossings so that they continue to be safe and easy to use into the future. I’d like to thank everyone for bearing with us through the disruption and I can reassure them that we’ll be making the most of the time to deliver a high-performing railway.”

Jamie Burles, Greater Anglia managing director, said: “This package of engineering work is designed to ensure we keep on providing a high-quality service for customers on the Bittern and Wherry Lines. These routes are entirely served by new trains and Network Rail’s upgrade work will help us to maintain the excellent punctuality levels currently being delivered and further enhance rail travel for passengers in the region.

“Rail replacement buses will run while the work takes place, so customers can still complete their journey. We would advise people to check before they travel.

“We would like to thank customers for their patience and understanding while these works take place.”

Full size bicycles and e-scooters cannot be carried on rail replacement buses.

We own, operate and develop Britain's railway infrastructure; that's 20,000 miles of track, 30,000 bridges, tunnels and viaducts and the thousands of signals, level crossings and stations. We run 20 of the UK's largest stations while all the others, over 2,500, are run by the country's train operating companies.

Usually, there are almost five million journeys made in the UK and over 600 freight trains run on the network. People depend on Britain's railway for their daily commute, to visit friends and loved ones and to get them home safe every day. Our role is to deliver a safe and reliable railway, so we carefully manage and deliver thousands of projects every year that form part of the multi-billion pound Railway Upgrade Plan, to grow and expand the nation's railway network to respond to the tremendous growth and demand the railway has experienced - a doubling of passenger journeys over the past 20 years.

Follow us on Twitter: @networkrail

Visit our online newsroom: www.networkrailmediacentre.co.uk