With topics inspired by the Personal Development Community: Personal Growth & Development, Motivation, Mind, Body, Spirit, Family Business and Social. Maturity Inc’s Medium Publication is open to all writers whose work is focused in the personal development field, ie., Wellness Instructors, Coaches, Motivators, Health Professionals, Experts, Masters and Scholars.

We would like our writers to focus on the following topics:

MIND: Mind includes, but is not limited to: inner peace, balance, self-awareness, self-reflection, self-knowledge, emotional intelligence, mindfulness, values and beliefs, personal identity, purpose and meaning, self-growth and development. BODY: Body includes, but is not limited to: physical fitness and exercise, nutrition and diet, sleep and rest, hygiene and grooming, stress management, skin and hair care, body language and posture, personal style, health and wellness, sexual heath and wellbeing.SPIRIT: Spirit includes, but is not limited to: Meditation and mindfulness practices, yoga, Qi Gong, Tai Chi and other physical movement practices, spiritual practices and rituals, connection with nature, creative expression, gratitude and appreciation forgiveness and compassion, mindful communication and connection, service to others, spiritual personal growth and self reflection.FAMILY: Family includes, but is not limited to: communication and conflict resolution skills, parenting skills and strategies, family traditions and rituals, time management and planning, household chores and responsibilities, emotional support and validation, family bonding activities, decision-making and problem-solving skills, respect and appreciation for diversity within the family unit.BUSINESS: Business includes, but is not limited to: leadership, effective communication, time management and productivity, business strategy and planning, project managment and organization, innovation and creativity, personal growth and reflection for professional development, financial management and budgeting, sales and marketing, networking and relationship building. Sharing is caring. Keep your readers in the know about who is hiring, paid gigs, education and professional development instruction, grants and funding, ect.SOCIAL: Social includes, but is not limited to: effective communication, active listening and empathy, conflict resolution and interpersonal negotiation skills, building and maintaining healthy relationships, respect and appreciation for diversity, social awareness and responsibility, teamwork and collaboration skills, personal networking and relationship building, leadership skills and qualities, community involvement and service, ie Civic Duty.FEATURES: We want to highlight Thought Leaders in ways that will accentuate their message. Whether it’s a book they wrote, a Ted Talk or film they are in, an audio book, a podcast they are releasing, or a small gathering where healers are instructing and expanding the minds of others. Share it here. Be careful, outright commercial promotion is prohibited.

Here are the rules

Maturity Inc welcomes writers to the publication; please follow these submission guidelines.

Agree to follow Medium’s Terms of Service and Rules. If you are new to Medium, please read them completely as not adhering to the rules means your writing won’t be accepted in Arts o’ Magazine. Credit all images appropriately, crediting the source. If you made it yourself, credit yourself. See example above. All photos must have a credit in order for your submission to be published.

Have at least a main photo on your submission, since it will show in the publication and draw attention to your writing.Your writing must be YOUR writing. No spam, No recycled public domain , No AI. Your writing only.You can submit self-published items here and monetize them.Please add your drafts to Maturity Inc Publication after you have been accepted as writer. You will see us listed within the EDIT TAB under ADD TO PUBLICATION.Must use this tag before you submit for publication: Maturity Inc or it will be rejected.We advise that you use some of these tags before you submit for publication: MIND, BODY, SPIRIT, FAMILY, BUSINESS, SOCIAL, FEATURED EXPERT, BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES, PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT, BUSINESS, or PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT. This will help us place your article in the appropriate page.Topics NOT ACCEPTED for publication: Include, but are not limited to: Politics, Religion, (avoid pushing a particular religious agenda). Gossip or personal attacks, Graphic or violent content, Offensive language, Commercial promotion. Overall, personal development publications should strive to be uplifting, informative, and inspiring, focusing on practical tips and strategies for personal growth and development. Don’t be crude or not only will your selction be rejected you will be banned, blocked and possibly reported to Medium.Submit no more than three post per day.

Interested in writing for Maturity Inc, but you don’t have a paid Medium account yet? Why not treat yourself to membership NOW?!

It’s $5 a month (or $50 a year- that’s buy 10 months and get 2 free!).

If you join from this link, you won’t pay any extra and our founder will receive a portion. So you will pay $5 a month either way.

It’s a Win/Win. Why not try it?

If you enjoyed this and would like to buy me a Fiji Water, please click here.

Click here to Subscribe to Indirah Ambrose.