Rivers United of Port Harcourt and Enyimba International Football Club have been drawn against each other in a fierce Round of 64 battle in the 2022/2023 Federation Cup competition.

The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) on Wednesday in Abuja conducted the draw for the men’s Round of 64 of this year’s Federation Cup competition.

It also conducted the draw for the competition’s women’s Round of 32.

There were a number of eye-catching fixtures accomplished in the draw, supervised by the NFF General Secretary Mohammed Sanusi.

However, it was the game between the two Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) giants which stood out as the star match of the lot.

Rivers United, the defending champions of the NPFL and a contender for this year’s CAF Confederation Cup, are up against the People’s Elephants who are also a continental football powerhouse.

The Aba-based Enyimba rose to prominence in the 2000s and are considered the most successful Nigerian football club, after having won two African Champions League titles.

They are also a force to reckon with in the NPFL having won eight Nigerian championships and four Federation Cups since 2001.

In other fixtures of the draw, Gateway United of Abeokuta will face Kwara United of Ilorin, while ABS FC also of Ilorin will face Bendel insurance of Benin.

Also, Ilaji FC of Oyo state will take on Kano Pillars FC in the competition’s main opening round which has 14 NPFL clubs, all battling for places in the men’s Round of 32.

There are a total of 32 teams in the women competition, which starts their sector of the race when the men will be battling in the Round of 32.

NAN reports that all Round of 64 matches in the men’s competition and Round of 32 matches in the women’s competition will hold on April 26.

The Round of 32 matches in the men’s competition have been scheduled for May 3, with the Round of 16 on May 10 and quarter-final matches on May 17

The semi-finals of both competitions will come up on May 24, with the men’s and women’s grand finale on May 27.

ALL THE ROUND OF 64 FIXTURES (MEN)

ALL THE ROUND OF 32 FIXTURES (WOMEN)