The Pakenham Warriors men netted a close 80-74 win on the weekend thanks to a strong last two minutes against Warrandyte.

Both the Warriors and visiting Warrandyte had their share of the lead throughout the afternoon, with the Warriors leading by one with two minutes to go.

After Warrandyte missed consecutive two pointers, it was young Michael Johns who extended the lead to three points.

Johns played 26 minutes, but they were his only points of the game as he capitalised on a rare attacking opportunity.

Joe Davis made a three-pointer 34 seconds later to extend the lead to six and despite Warrandyte closing to within four in the last 30 seconds, they didn’t have the opportunity to win it.

Elias Kafrouni, Brenton Charles, Kasseka Mpota, Joshua Dow and Davis each scored more than 10 points in an even team performance on the scoreboard.

The Warriors backed it up the following day with a 132-58 romping of Chelsea.

Davis combined 32 points with 15 rebounds in a game set up by a 33-9 first quarter.

The women remain one of the two winless teams after four rounds of the Championship Women Big V competition.

A quiet third quarter let the Warriors down after they had led by four at halftime after taking it up to Wyndham in the first half.

But, trailing by six at the final break, Wyndham was able to run over the top of the Warriors, winning 84-71.

Samantha Romanowski and Haille Nickerson each played more than 36 minutes and combined for 52 of the Warriors points.

A 27-10 first quarter set up the youth league women to win 94-78 over Warrandyte.

Warrandyte was able to work its way back into it, but the Warriors then outscored the visitors by 13 in the last quarter to make sure of the result.

Braden Venning’s youth league men went down by five points to Whittlesea.

The Warriors were within three at three-quarter-time, but Whittlesea got on the scoreboard first in the final stanza.

From there, Venning’s men were always playing catch up and fell five points short, despite Cooper Lanting bucketing 20 points.