Let’s start with why cards have the ranks that they do. This is not necessarily what I believe in, rather what I have come to understand and putting my own twist to it. Nonetheless, I can come to an agreement with some of these things.

The more the people, the merrier. If you can control a few people, great. If you can control the world world, even better.

Jack, to me, is a great representation of going beyond the regular population that is more easily controlled. The reason that Jack can often represent a joker is because anyone in this position can have the illusion of having it all but are still controlled by higher ranks.

This is where a “Jack” can attempt to tempt the queen. But if he’s smarter, he’ll attempt to bring us to ace (jack pot). He knows how it feels to be treated like an ordinary person and he has given up on trying to be King. In that case, let’s bring in more unity, he thinks (sorry Robin Hood, you’re old news.)

The King needs a Queen. But how more interesting is a Queen who stands on her own. Talk about feminism.

The King is probably worse than Jack. Let’s be honest. He thinks he is on top of the world. Nonetheless, kings can be overthrown and that’s why we have less monarchy today. Sure, we still have to radically improve democracy both locally and internationally, but it’s hard to threaten authority when there is no king.

In one word: Unity. This can be mistaken for utopia: equality, and no social and environmental issues. Although world issues could be a thing of the past if we ever get here, we’ll still have human suffering like heartbreak, just not extreme unnecessary suffering like starvation, being caught in conflict, and modern day slavery to name only a few.

You might respect the person who wins at the casino, the lottery and in poker, but how about those who can influence the world to be a better place to live in?

That’s a jack pot for me right there.

How can we get here?

One of the ways to currently try to get here is simply by ideas being exchanged. For example, in foreign policy, you see people share their opinions on what issues to care about the most and what possible solutions can be, and how this can benefit everyone (a.k.a why we should pay attention).

It’s not necessarily implementing solutions, but the dream here is to be able to do so regardless of the different ways this can happen (activists, politicians, corporations, a crisis that deserves attention, etc.)

At the moment diplomacy has become a more popular term. Just not that easy to put into action. But even if you take away the challenge of persuasive communication (don’t give up too quickly though), there is still the problem of who to go to war with.

It’s easy to spend too much money and lives on wars, so they focus on any country who either threatens national security or can make it wealthier. Nonetheless, the smart thing to do here is to focus on all the countries who are experiencing civil war, nation-state war, terrorism, and human rights violations.

Even if the focus is not on ethics and it’s more on the economy, we should be able to agree that there are long term benefits to improving the economy when we have a world mindset and invested in humanity overall rather than assuming that some are more valuable than others.

Of course there are other lists of world issues, but I think is save to say that we can start here. Then perhaps we can have a more “don’t put all your eggs on one basket” mindset when refocusing on other world issues after tackling the most challenging one.