IS your pee smelling a little off?

Most of the time, it's just down to what you've consumed recently and nothing to worry about.

The food most commonly associated with changing the scent of your wee is asparagus, causing a distinct, sulphurous smell often described as 'asparagus pee'.

Eating lots of garlic can also make your urine smelly, according to the NHS, as it contains "strong-smelling chemicals that can pass into your pee". Your favourite morning coffee could have the same effect.

Even taking certain medicines and vitamins can render you pee a bit more pongy, especially vitamin B6 supplements.

In some cases, however, your stinky urine could be pointing to certain health conditions, which might need medical attention.

If your pee is strong-smelling and dark yellow, odds are you're not drinking enough liquids and you're dehydrated.

You might also notice you feel thirsty and dry-mouthed and you're weeing less than usual.

Try to rehydrate if you're noticing these symptoms - if you've been ill and consuming liquids is harder, start with small sips and gradually drink more.

The smell of your pee won't change while you're ovulating, but an increase in hormones like oestrogen or progesterone can make you more sensitive to smells.

But the smell of your pee can change when you're pregnant - you're also at higher risk or developing a UTI when you're expecting.

If your urine smells sweet or like ammonia, it might be an early sign of a urinary tract infection (UTI).

Your pee could also be cloudy and dark, you might be needing to go to the loo suddenly and more than usual. A burning sensation when you pee is a UTI red flag.

You should see a GP if you suspect you have UTI - make an undergent appointment or call NHS 111 if you:

have a very high temperature, or feel hot and shivery

have a very low temperature below 36C

have pain in the lower tummy or in the back, just under the ribs

can see blood in your pee

If you're noticing a yeasty smell when you wee, you might have a yeast infection.

You may also have cottage cheese-like discharge, feel soreness during sex or when peeing, and have itching and irritation, according to the NHS.

Thrush should clear up within a week, after one dose of medicine or using cream daily.

You do not need to treat partners unless they have symptoms.

Your GP or sexual health clinic can help identify if something is causing your thrush, such as your period or sex.

Foul-smelling urine can be a sign of a sexually transmitted infection (STI), such as chlamydia or trichomoniasis, according to Everyday Health.

STIs tend to cause unusual discharge from your vagina, penis or anus, as well as itchiness and rashes, blisters, sores or warts and pain when peeing.

It's a good idea to get any symptoms checked out at a sexual health clinic - visit one if your partner has any symptoms too, or if you're worried after having sex without a condom.

If your wee smells strangely fruity and you're also rushing to the bathroom more often - especially at night - and feeling thirsty, your body might be telling you have type 2 diabetes.

Other symptoms include losing weight without trying to and feeling incredibly tired, according to Diabetes UK.

If you feel very unwell or your symptoms have come on quickly seek an urgent appointment with your GP or call NHS 111.

Maple syrup urine disease (MSUD) is a rare but serious inherited condition, which makes the body unable to process certain amino acids and causes a harmful build-up of substances in your blood and wee.

One of the characteristic symptoms of MSUD is sweet-smelling urine, which gives the condition its name.

Babies will usually be checked for the condition when they're a few days old, the NHS said.

When should I get help?

To summarise, you should set up a GP appointment if you have smelly pee and:

you need to pee suddenly, more often than usual, or during the night

you have pain or a burning sensation when peeing

See a GP urgently or contact NHS 111 if:

there's blood in your pee

you have pain in your back, under the ribs

you have a very high temperature, or you feel hot and shivery

your temperature is very low

Doctors have recently revealed what the colour of your wee could say about your health.