Skip to main content

Daily Insights on Pensions and Financial Markets

On Monday, CDPQ published today its Sustainable Investing Report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2022.

In the report, CDPQ presents its actions and accomplishments in sustainable investment. Here are some highlights:

CDPQ is well on track to reach a net-zero portfolio by 2050:

$47 billion in low-carbon assets, including $12 billion in Québec, which represents a global increase of $29 billion in low-carbon assets since 2017.

Over $300 billion in low-carbon assets or invested in low-carbon sectors.

A 53% reduction in the carbon intensity of the portfolio since 2017.

Three transactions were concluded as part of the transition envelope to reduce emissions from the largest emitting companies.

Our exit from the oil sector is essentially completed.

CDPQ is convinced that an ecosystem that promotes diversity in all  its forms encourages the emergence of a fairer, more inclusive and  performant economy:

Women represent 45% of its staff and it has a goal of achieving 47% female representation by 2025.

52% of its actively managed public companies have at least 30% of

women on their Boards of Directors, an increase of more than 27% in two

years.

CDPQ is one of the only investors in the world to have made a

commitment to encourage best tax practices within its portfolio

companies, including compliance with a minimum tax rate of at least 15%,

as recommended by the OECD and supported by the G20.

Sound governance is essential to good performance and optimal risk  management. This is why CDPQ uses its influence to promote the adoption  of best practices by:

Assisting several portfolio companies in integrating ESG factors into their processes, including nine Québec companies.

Raising awareness of ESG issues for 175 portfolio companies and 63 external managers.

Using its voting rights to vote on 54,337 resolutions at 5,537 shareholder meetings.

"Every day, our approach is guided by our responsibility towards the

six million Quebecers who entrust us with their savings. CDPQ uses its

constructive capital to take meaningful action for current and future

generations. Recognized here and internationally, this leadership in

sustainable investment is our pride," said Charles Emond, President and Chief Executive Officer of CDPQ.

"The combination of the diversified expertise of our teams and their

knowledge of the markets allows us to innovate to concretely address the

financing of the transition. We are also involved in many international

actions to catalyze solutions that promote sustainable investing and

that will have a positive impact on the communities and the companies in

which we invest," said Marc-André Blanchard, Executive Vice-President

and Head of CDPQ Global and Global Head of Sustainability.

The 2022 Sustainable Investing Report is available online.

At CDPQ, we invest constructively to generate sustainable returns  over the long term. As a global investment group managing funds for  public pension and insurance plans, we work alongside our partners to  build enterprises that drive performance and progress. We are active in  the major financial markets, private equity, infrastructure, real estate  and private debt. As at December 31, 2022, CDPQ's net assets totalled CAD 402 billion. For more information, visit cdpq.com, follow us on Twitter or consult our Facebook or LinkedIn pages.

CDPQ is a registered trademark owned by Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec and licensed for use by its subsidiaries.

You can download CDPQ's 2022 Sustainable Investing Report here as well as a  PDF version of the highlights here. Let me begin with the highlights below:

Take the time to view the 2022 Sustainable Investing Report here.A little strange to me but there is not PDF available for the full report, only four pages of highlights I embedded above. Anyway, I think it's worth going over the Message from CDPQ's CEO Charles Emond:In an environment characterized by simultaneous crises, like we are  seeing now, the fact that many investors are turning to environmental,  social and governance (ESG) factors to improve their asset management  has given rise to a false debate.“As a manager of public funds, building a more equitable and sustainable

world is not a choice. It is a responsibility that goes with our

fiduciary duty.”

At CDPQ, we want to be among those who are taking

concrete steps for present and future generations. We have a fiduciary

duty toward our depositors, and together we share an ambition to act in

the interests of the community.

We have convictions, but we are also pragmatic in our

approach. Taking ESG factors into account allows us to better assess the

long-term viability of a company and better understand the risks it

faces. We also have short-, medium- and long-term targets to create

value and ensure superior returns for our depositors.

Our teams maintain an ongoing dialogue with our portfolio  companies to improve their practices and support their performance  through the application of rigorous criteria. Our efforts are focused on  certain priorities—including the climate, diversity and taxation—to  maximise our impact across all our areas of activity.

We acted early and decisively to address climate change,

which represents a great risk to our companies. As a result, we now have

one of the world’s largest portfolios of assets in renewable energy

generation. It has delivered excellent returns for our depositors over

the past five years, generating higher performance than companies in oil

production. Our exit from this sector is essentially completed.

We also believe there can be no doubt that our companies

and external managers gain from supporting greater diversity and

promoting inclusion within their teams. When they do, they benefit from

diverse and complementary perspectives when assessing risks and

identifying opportunities. And now, in these times of economic

uncertainty, the need is greater than ever to promote equal

opportunities through our activities.

Lastly, as a global investor, having our portfolio  companies adopt a tax structure that respects communities is fundamental  to our sustainable asset management approach. This is why we are one of  the few fund managers in the world who committed to carrying out a  systematic portfolio review from a tax perspective. We based that review

on specific criteria, including the minimum tax rate recommended by the

OECD and supported by the G20.

Beyond the initiatives we are putting in place, we were

recognized for our leadership as a global investor, in particular in

terms of sustainable investing. Among several awards received during the  year, we were named 2022 Fund of the Year, ahead of some 400 sovereign  wealth funds and public pension funds analyzed by Global SWF. Our  contribution to the development of Québec’s sustainable economy was also  recognized. In addition, our rigorous governance and climate action  have earned us the number one ranking among pension funds in the World  Benchmarking Alliance’s Financial System Benchmark.“Of course, it's demanding to be a successful and responsible investor.

But we believe that's what it takes to fulfill our dual mandate.”In Québec and around the world, we are recognized as an innovator that

can use our constructive capital and our network of international

partners to create solutions to the challenges that markets and

communities face. And every day, our approach is guided by our

responsibility to the six million Quebecers who entrust us with their

savings.I've said it before and I'll say it again, CDPQ is a global leader in sustainable investing and it has nothing to do with the fact that it fully exited out of oil & gas sector last year or the fact that it has "one of the world’s largest portfolios of assets in renewable energy  generation."Let that sink in for a second. It has NOTHING to do with its (in my opinion wrong) decision to divest out of oil & gas and NOTHING to do with the fact that CDPQ is a one of the world's top investors in renewable energy assets.Huh? How can this be?To really appreciate why CDPQ is a global trend setter in sustainable investing you really have to delve deeply in its climate strategy it unveiled almost two years ago.Every time CDPQ does something big in sustainable investing, others follow suit.They say imitation is the best form of flattery, and when it comes to CDPQ's sustainable investing and responsible investing strategy, other large Canadian and global pensions typically try to incorporate many bits and pieces into their own strategy (except for divesting out of oil & gas as they prefer engagement and focusing n transition investing).

Let's move on to the message from Marc-André Blanchard, Executive Vice-President and Head of CDPQ Global and Global Head of Sustainability:I am extremely proud of our achievements over the past year. Through a  combination of our diversified expertise and the market knowledge of  our teams, we innovated and found practical solutions that address the  financing of climate measures on a global scale. Our transition envelope  and blended finance are examples of a range of solutions for working  collectively, with various stakeholders, to catalyze efforts toward  achieving ambitious targets.

I can see that, around the world, CDPQ’s leadership

shines. Our attendance at major events such as COP27 and COP15 and our

participation, alongside our peers, in a number of global initiatives on

ESG matters, are helping achieve progress on these critical issues. The

synergy that emerges from these concerted international actions creates

a spirit of collaboration and trust that is increasingly favourable to

sustainable investing.

This suggests that solid progress will be made in 2023.

Our teams will continue to propose various avenues for creating value

for the communities where we invest. And we believe that our proactive

engagement with our portfolio companies is a path to continued success.

For us, this is a promising way to build a sustainable future.Now, it's really important for me to highlight something in my comment.The bursting of the ESG bubble which is still ongoing in public markets is a really good thing but it does not signal the death of responsible investing at Canada's large pension funds.There is an important distinction to be made here.The ESG bubble is just like any other bubble in the history of financial markets, investors get swept away with labels and tend to pour obscene money into investments that are labelled "ESG".All this does is fuel a bubble and bubbles never end well, ever.And there's more to go, just look at Tesla shares which continue to defy logic:I'm short Tesla shares and think they're heading back to $30 a share by Q1 2024.[Note: Instead of shorting outright or buying puts, I prefer the AXS TSLA Bear Daily ETF (TSLQ).]Tesla remains the poster child for ESG bubble and because it's such an important part of the major indexes, the big indexers -- Vanguard, BlackRock, and Fidelity -- are reluctant to sell it outright.Anyway, Tesla isn't responsible investing, it's just a stock.Responsible investing at Canada's large pension funds is here to stay, it represents a long-term approach to investing which enhances long-term risk-adjusted returns.Importantly, responsible investing doesn't supplant rigorous investing using quantitative and qualitative screens, it complements it.This is why we really need to be careful not to confound ESG bubble and nonsense with the responsible investing approach Canada's large pension funds have adopted to enhance long-term returns.The onus is on the leaders of Canada's Maple Eight and other large pensions to explain this distinction properly.And even in public markets, ESG has its place in terms of enhancing revenues/ profits over the long run:Over 70% of Businesses View ESG as a Revenue Enabler: IBM Study https://t.co/vxmHYx76qz— Leo Kolivakis (@PensionPulse) April 18, 2023  Alright, let me end it there and once again refer my readers to CDPQ's Sustainable Investing Report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2022.There is a lot more detail in there and one area where CDPQ is leading the world is in how its massive Real Estate portfolio managed by Ivanhoé Cambridge is taking the lead to cut sits carbon emissions significantly through various initiatives.Real Estate remains the single biggest contributor to carbon emissions at Canada's large pensions and global institutional investors.In order to cut emissions, you have to have a clear climate strategy governing real estate assets.One last note, I went to see my physiatrist Dr. André Roy earlier today to do cortisone shots in my spine around the L3/L4 level.Dr. Roy sees his fair share of chronic pain but he told me to do the MRI quickly at the MNI and have Dr. Goulet, my neurosurgeon, review the results as quickly as possible."You're suffering too much, I want to see you in a month, let's hope the cortisone helps alleviate some of the intolerable nerve pain you're experiencing."He also reiterated what Dr. Goulet said: "This has nothing to do with Multiple Sclerosis, once you address this, your quality of life will significantly improve."I also met a lady who works in finance, a patient with cervical spine pain, and I told her I'm on Lyrica and Baclofen three times a day but it hasn't kicked in yet (going on second week, it could take up to four weeks to work, if it works; the same with cortisone shots).I told her I still manage to track markets all day and write a blog comment at night even though the medication gives me a form of narcolepsy and I fall asleep throughout the day (my wife says it's my blog comments, they cure insomnia, she's funny!). "Wow, chapeau (hats off), I had to take time off work because Lyrica is making me incapable of thinking clearly and leaves me dead tired" (try taking it with Baclofen, knocks you right out).

I'm trying to do my best to keep up the blog comments but it goes without saying, my health comes first and if I don't feel up to it, I'm not blogging so bear with me.Also, I appreciate those who appreciate the work that goes into these blog comments and support the work financially through PayPal options on the top left-hand side of this blog under my picture.Just remember, there's a reason why this is the best blog on pensions and investments in the world and it's not my pretty face! -:)Lastly, CDPQ today released its Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2022, titled Creating value in an environment like no other (in French only - English available soon).That will have to wait for another comment when I compare the performance and compensation at Canada's large pensions.Below, Lenka Martinek, managing partner at Sustainable Market Strategies and Nordis Capital, joins BNN Bloomberg (January, 2023)to discuss her hot picks in the sustainability sector. Martinek lists two companies she's bullish on, and also recommends a company to short which she believes not to be as sustainable as they claim. Smart lady, she really knows her stuff.

And carbon footprint in Real Estate & Infrastructure, the Indian perspective, held on Wednesday, February 23rd. In collaboration with GRESB Partner Envint, and support from GRESB Industry Partner APREA.