Advanced Search

We may earn a commission for products purchased through links on this page

JavaScript is disabled. For a better experience, please enable JavaScript in your browser before proceeding.

Victorinox Swiss Army Airboss Mach 8 Special Edition

I’ve had this for quite a while now but it’s time to move on. Comes with two bracelets and original leather (like new).

For those who don't know about the Airboss series, hold your judgment. It's definitely Swiss,big, bold, and beautiful! I'd put it right up there with a Marathon CSAR with way better finishing and without the ponderous girth. In short these Victorinox special editions are rare and cost some real money.

Condition is probably 98%. If you pull out a loupe or microscope you can find evidence of one strap change. One hairline on the case which I can't photograph. Cardboard box and hang tag and no papers! I bought this as a display model. These typically sell for close to two grand!

This one comes with a basic box, and is in excellent condition. This bad boy runs a beautifully finished Valjoux 7750 movement modified by Victorinox with a beautifully engraved rotor! Lume is beautifully and robust as well. Comes with a brand new Victorinox OEM mesh bracelet, and a 23mm oyster style bracelet as well as the original leather strap which is like new. This is a dayummm good Victorinox and the top of the heap on looks, durability, and performance! I’m a long time buyer/seller on here so buy with confidence!

$895 OBRO! No trades please. Price is firmish but I'll listen to a very close offer. This watch is kind of a big deal if you follow Victorinox.

Watch Details

Brand Name: Swiss Army

Style Number: 241446

Also Called: V251446, V241446, 251446

Series: AirBoss Mach 8

Subseries: Special Edition

Style (Gender): Men's

Case Material: Stainless Steel, Brushed (316L)

Case Shape: Round

Dial Color: Black

Movement: Automatic

Engine: Valjoux 7750

Functions: Hours, Minutes, Seconds, Date, Bi-directional Rotating Flange

Watch Chronograph: Steel pusher at 8 activates chronograph and stops chronograph. Steel pusher at 10 resets chronograph.

Crystal Material: Sapphire - Anti Reflective, triple-coat antireflective coating

Case Diameter: 45.0 mm

Case Length Including Lugs: 54.50 mm

Case Width Including Crown: 48.5 mm

Case Thickness: 15.0 mm

Caseback: Sapphire Crystal - Transparent Exhibition Back, screwed in

Bezel Material: Stainless Steel, Satin finish

Bezel Function: Fixed, inner flange moves via crown at 2

Mass: 139.0 g

Water Resistance: 100m / 330ft (suitable for swimming and shallow snorkeling; unsuitable for diving)

Crown Material: Left-hand crown, Stainless Steel, Fluted

Crown Thickness: 3.75

Crown Diameter: 7 mm

Calendar: Automatic Date at 9

Power Reserve: 46-hour power reserve

Watch Bracelet / Strap Material: Leather - Black Cowhide with white stitching

Watch Clasp Material: Stainless Steel Deployant Hidden Folding Buckle with twin push-buttons (vc0906)

Max Wrist Size: 9.0

Watch Strap Width: 21.0 - 23.0 mm

Bracelet Thickness: 2.4 - 3.85 mm

First Production Year: 2010

A forum community dedicated to watch owners and enthusiasts. Come join the discussion about watch collections, displays, watch winders, accessories, classifieds, and more! We welcome all manufacturers including Casio G-Shock, OMEGA, Rolex, Breitling, Rolex and Tudor, Seiko, Grand Seiko and others.

Full Forum Listing