Click here to continue to BizTimes

People

About

Sign Up for Our Email Newsletters

Sign Up for Our Email Newsletters

Sign Up for Our Email Newsletters

Waukesha-based food manufacturer Legacy Bakehouse has been acquired by Chicago-based private equity firm Benford Capital Partners. Terms of the deal were not disclosed. Peter Sardina, Legacy Bakehouse president, will continue leading the company after the acquisition. Founded in 1917, Legacy Bakehouse develops and manufactures baked snack ingredients including bagel chips, rye chips, pita chips, and

Want to Read the Entire Article?

Become a BizTimes Insider today and get immediate access to our subscriber-only content and much more.

Become an Insider Now

Already an Insider? Log In

Ashley covers startups, technology and manufacturing for BizTimes. She was previously the managing editor of the News Graphic and Washington County Daily News. In past reporting roles, covering education at The Waukesha Freeman, she received several WNA awards. She is a UWM graduate. In her free time, Ashley enjoys watching independent films, tackling a new recipe in the kitchen and reading a good book.

Desire to transform health care in Wisconsin behind Froedtert, ThedaCare merger

Four southeast Wisconsin retail properties sold for $34.3 million in portfolio deal

Cardinal Stritch to shut down at end of spring semester

Waukesha-based food manufacturer  Legacy Bakehouse  has been acquired by Chicago-based private equity firm  Benford Capital Partners.  Terms of the deal were not disclosed.

Peter Sardina,  Legacy Bakehouse president, will continue leading the company after the acquisition.

Founded in 1917, Legacy Bakehouse develops and manufactures baked snack ingredients including bagel chips, rye chips, pita chips, and other ingredients for leading consumer packaged goods and retail customers. Legacy Bakehouse is also the brand owner and manufacturer of Pinahs Rye Chips and Snack Mixes.

The company has decades of experience in creating B2B and private label baked snack products for leading food brands, retailers, and food service companies.

“We are excited to partner with Benford Capital in our next phase of growth,” said Sardina. “Our team looks forward to working together to grow with our existing customers, expand our production footprint, and remain committed to exceptional customer service.”

Benford Capital and Legacy Bakehouse plan to invest in enhanced operational capacity and sales capabilities to drive organic growth. Benford Capital and management plan to actively pursue add-on acquisitions of other snack component developers and manufacturers.

“Legacy Bakehouse is a great company with a rich history and successful track record,” said  Ben Riefe,  managing director of Benford Capital. “Peter Sardina and the Legacy team have firmly established the company as a leader in baked snack components, and we look forward to executing our value creation plan together.”

Legacy Bakehouse leadership did not immediately respond to a further request for comment on the sale.

Milwaukee-based investment bank  TKO Miller  advised Legacy Bakehouse on its sale to Benford Capitol.