THE POWER Rangers are back for their 30th-anniversary special on Netflix called Mighty Morphin Power Rangers: Once & Always.

Though a few former cast members didn't return, Power Ranger fans will be delighted to recognize a few familiar faces.

Mighty Morphin Power Rangers: Once & Always premiered on Netflix on April 19, 2023.

The anniversary special will reunite some of Power Ranger's notable characters. It'll also pay tribute to the late Thuy Trang and the late Jason David Frank who both died since the reunion was announced.

Let's take a look at the cast that'll be dominating the reunion:

Reprising his role as The Black Ranger, Walter Jones is a returning face for the 30th special.

Since appearing on the original Might Morphin Power Rangers show, Jones has had a few film credits under his belt.

He's been in NYPD Blue, Star Trek: Captain Pike, House Party, and CSI.

Steve Cardenas also known as The Red Ranger will also be returning for MMPR: Once & Always.

Since Cardenas's debuted as The Red Ranger, the alum has been in an array of shows in the Power Ranger franchise including Power Rangers Turbo (1997) and Power Rangers Ninja Steel (2018).

In 1996, Cardenas switched up his ranger colors playing the Blue Zeo Ranger in a 50-episode appearance in Power Rangers Zeo.

Many may recognize Sutherland's character The Pink Ranger who replaced the original Pink Ranger portrayed by Amy Jo Johnson.

As Jo Johnson revealed she wasn't returning for the reunion, Sutherland was confirmed as the official Pink Ranger for the Netflix special.

Like Cardenas, Sutherland went on to play in a few Power Rangers' spin-offs including her most recent appearance on the 2021 mini series, Power Rangers: Shattered Past.

New to the Power Rangers franchise is Charlie Kersh who plays Minh, Trini also known as The Yellow Ranger's daughter.

The original Yellow Ranger actress, Thuy Trang died in a tragic car accident in 2001. To honor her character Kersh will carry on her legacy.

Before MMPR: Once & Always, the 17-year-old actress has been in Happyish, Clique Wars, and The Danger Misfits.

Similar to Sutherland, Karan Ashley replaced the late Thuy Trang in the original Might Morphin Power Rangers series.

With almost 30 years of experience under her belt, Ashley built a name for herself.

Apart from being known as The Yellow Ranger, Ashley has also been in Kenan & Kel, Class Dismissed, One on One, and The Steve Harvey Show.

Like the return many original cast members, David Yost has taken back his spot as The Blue Ranger.

Yost told Forbes he was excited to reunite with his fellow cast members.

Yost said: "It was so much fun to get to work with Walter Jones again, and kind of like re-live how this all started for the two of us, because being in the original cast, we went through so much together."

Til this day, Yost has been featured in a plethora of Power Rangers spin-offs including the 2023 Power Rangers Dino Fury.

Another Black Ranger is coming to town. Bosch has claimed a spot in the new Power Rangers movie.

In the original series, he replaced Walter Jones in the second season. Since then, he has become a widely known voice actor with over 400 film credits attached to his name.

Some credits include Sailor Moon, Naruto, and many other anime series. Bosch also voices video games like the Final Fantasy franchise.

Other members named on IMDB's cast is: