Wayne LaPierre, the Chief Executive Officer and Executive Vice President of the National Rifle Association (NRA), suggested any lawmakers who back common sense gun legislation will suffer severe consequences from the organization during its annual meeting Friday.

Journalist Aaron Rupar shared a clip of LaPierre's speech at the Indianapolis convening, writing, "Wayne LaPierre says at the NRA event that 'gun hating politicians should never go to bed unafraid of what this association and all of our millions of members can do to their political careers.'"

"I don't care how many billionaires, TikTok stars or Hollywood airheads they've got," the conservative emphasized.

READ MORE: '$1.3 million Marsha': Twitter shoots down Tennessee's NRA-funded Blackburn's 'prayer' for Nashville victims

According to CNN, the meeting boasts in-person support from GOP 2024 hopefuls and leaders, including former President Donald Trump, former Vice President Mike Pence, South Dakota Gov. Kristi Noem, New Hampshire Gov. Chris Sununu, former Arkansas Gov. Asa Hutchinson and candidate Vivek Ramaswamy — while "Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis, South Carolina Sen. Tim Scott and former U. N. ambassador Nikki Haley will deliver video messages."

The NRA, the nation's foremost gun lobby, has seen its power wane in recent years amid leadership fights and legal battles. In 2021, the organization attempted to declare bankruptcy – an effort rejected by a federal judge. Still, the group is influential among conservatives, and its annual gatherings remain a magnet for presidential hopefuls.

On Tuesday, April 11 — the same day as the downtown Louisville mass shooting that left five dead — Indiana GOP lawmakers voted to pass a resolution honoring the NRA's "leadership," The Statehouse File reports.

Social media users condemned LaPierre's for what many saw as a "threat of violence."

READ MORE: NRA-backed Josh Hawley wants to know 'who is behind' gender-affirming care centers

David Lazarus: "How is this not domestic terrorism?"

U. S. Rep. Ted Lieu (D-CA): "Dear @NRA: Can you please highlight far and wide that I repeatedly got a 'F' on your legislative report card? Thanks."

The Virginia Observer: "What exactly does Wayne LaPierre means by that? Is that a threat of violence?"

@PleaseThink1776: "Republicans are more afraid of this guy than of losing their children to guns"

READ MORE: Kentucky governor loses two friends in Louisville mass shooting. It was the 146th so far this year

@eugene: "The NRA is outright and bluntly threatening politicians now. It is high time America takes threats from them seriously."

Edward Perez: "Nice. Holding the whole f**king country — and our children — hostage."

Stephanie Myles: "They don't actually *HATE* guns. They just don't (CRAZY THOUGHT) think people should be able to buy and walk around with and shoot people dead with AR15s. Nuts, right?"

Ramsey D: "In other words, @GOP will continue to sell out America to line their pockets & look the other way when kids are dying from gun violence every damn day! Money does indeed talk!"

Watch the video below or at this link.

READ MORE: The USA is now a majority permitless gun carry country thanks to Ron DeSantis

CNN's full report is available at this link. The Statehouse File's report is here.