* Nagelsmann has overtaken Enrique as the favourite for the Chelsea job

* Chelsea sacked Graham Potter after seven months in charge of the club

* Frank Lampard has returned on an interim basis until a new boss is hired

Julian Nagelsmann has overtaken Luis Enrique as the favourite to become the next Chelsea manager, according to reports from Germany.

Chelsea sacked Graham Potter after seven months in charge as the Blues were 11th in the Premier League table, having won just 12 of his 31 games at the helm.

Lampard – who was dismissed by Chelsea in January 2021 after a season-and-a-half in charge – has made a sensational return to Stamford Bridge as the interim manager.

He will take charge of the Blues until the end of the season. This gives the Chelsea hierarchy time to find a suitable long-term successor for Potter.

Nagelsmann and Enrique have been named as the frontrunners to take over the reigns. However, the likes of Mauricio Pochettino and Ruben Amorim are still in contention.

Julian Nagelsmann (left) has overtaken Luis Enrique (right) as the favourite for the Chelsea job

Chelsea sacked Graham Potter after just seven months in charge of the Premier League club

Chelsea’s co-sporting directors Paul Winstanley (left) and Laurence Stewart are said to have met with Nagelsmann in London last Thursday

According to Sky Sports Germany, Nagelsmann has overtaken Enrique as the favourite to become the next Chelsea manager.

Chelsea’s co-sporting directors Paul Winstanley and Laurence Stewart are said to have met with Nagelsmann in London last Thursday.

They sat down with the former Bayern Munich manager to discuss his vision for Chelsea and his strategy for achieving such goals.

The Chelsea chiefs were said to be impressed with Nagelsmann’s ideas and the subsequent conversations were positive, but a final decision has not been made.

Nevertheless, the report stats that Nagelsmann has overtaken Enrique as the favourite to become the next Chelsea manager.

Nagelsmann – who was sacked by Bayern Munich last month – has also attracted interest from Tottenham following the departure of Antonio Conte.

Meanwhile, Enrique has been without a job since he stepped down as Spain’s head coach following the World Cup in Qatar last December.

The Blues have made contact with both Enrique and Nagelsmann, with the pair being the two main contenders to succeed Potter.

However, the Blues are also interested in the services of Mauricio Pochettino, who is linked with both Spurs and Real Madrid.