Bentley is celebrating 20 years of the Continental GT this year and has a whole host of events and special editions planned to commemorate it. To kick off the festivities, the brand debuted a one-of-one Continental GT S at the Shanghai Auto Show that features commemorative badging, inlays, and design motifs courtesy of Mulliner that showcase the model's defining history.

The first Continental GT debuted in 2003 breaking into an underserved market with gorgeous grand-tourer looks and a highly advanced W12 engine. Over the past 20 years, it has managed to build on its comfort and athleticism with the introduction of the Speed and Mulliner models. With the dawn of electrification at hand, the venerated W12 is on its way out, but not before Bentley gives the car and engine the celebration it deserves.

The Shanghai GT S (which doesn't really have a name) is painted in a magnetic dark grey metallic over a red and black, Beluga and Hotspur leather interior with Piano Black touches. The car sits on 22-inch black chrome wheels with red calipers popping out from behind. One of the most unique features is the dual finish that stretches across the dashboard. The upper features Granite Stone while the lower is finished in Grand Black.

Many placards and laser etchings can be found celebrating the 20-year anniversary. On the center console and on the passenger side dash an engraving featuring the silhouettes of the 1st and 3rd generation GT is on display, while on the door sills a placard saying '20 years of the Continental GT' can be found.

The whole design makes the car look rather sporty while managing to not be too loud or overdone, though we think a few more commemorative touches could have been put in place.

As this car is the first of the celebrations, the others will pick up as the year goes on. Two hubs will be created in Crewe, England, and Geneva, Switzerland that will showcase many of the most famous Continental GTs from the car's lifetime able to be driven. Goodwood, which will feature many celebrations this year like the 110th birthday of Aston Martin, will also play host to the GT and W12's birthdays as well. It will be a moving showcase of cars and the perfect sendoff for the engine that is ending production in April of 2024.

Finally, Bentley will unveil a final one-of-one Continental GT at Monterey Car Week inspired by the very first GT to roll off the line: VIN 20001.

We imagine the added benefit of all of these celebrations will be more rich folks buying Bentleys, especially limited edition and Bespoke ones. Since the company is coming off its most profitable year ever, it's going to take a lot to top it, but we have faith.

This article originally appeared on CarBuzz: Bentley Celebrates 20 Years Of The Continental GT With Bespoke Model