My, my, my … How this world has changed, our states, our counties and our neighborhoods have changed, and sometimes for better, unfortunately, some changes are not better…

Remember when I could walk to town (Bladenboro) going or coming from work at Hinson’s SuperMarket, and I knew who lived in just about every dwelling place all along the 3 (?) mile roadway? Not so today! Sometimes we don’t know the folks within a short distance around … within a quarter of a mile … Our world has changed … and sometimes change is not easy to adjust to … Sometimes, folks feel they need some protection … See where I am going? … Just need to be careful … and sometimes folks get careless … and I remember what I was told as a youngster … what’s mine is mine and what’s yours is yours … Ever hear that? I think of that when I hear of folks shooting folks … Sad, so sad … Just been watching too much TV news…

Weather for next few days … Sunny today, with a high near 86, calm wind. Clear tonight, with a low near 57. Sunny, Thursday, with a high near 89 … From near freezing to near 90 in a couple of weeks … If you don’t like the weather today, just hang around … changes are constant. 70% chance of rain Saturday and Saturday night … High Sunday near 71.

And, how ’bout a Bladen County Lotto winner … a cool $1 million … but after taxes, ’bout half that … Not fair … If you win a million, oughta get a million … Oh, yes, I would take what I could get … Just thinking out loud … Some condemn the lottery, congratulate the winner…

Be careful what you say … Fox news has agreed to pay Dominion (builders of voting machines) $787 million for election claims, half of what they were being sued for, related to false claims … Sometimes what we say can come back to bite us, where it hurts…

Just a few ‘thoughts while shaving’…

“The truth is rarely pure and never simple.” Oscar Wilde

“Honesty is the first chapter in the book of wisdom.” Thomas Jefferson, former U. S. President

“Three things cannot be long hidden: the sun, the moon, and the truth.” Buddha