* Blogging is a way to share ideas and best practices with those who need help.

* Having a blog supports those who are struggling.

People often ask me why I blog. Of course, my instant response is to help those who may benefit from my ideas and best practices. But, reactions to my answer vary from gentle smiles to a perfunctory pat on the back. It’s hard to understand why someone would share their views with the vast universe of the internet for singularly altruistic purposes.

To truly understand where I’m coming from and why I create content, you must know how I grew up. My dad was a fighter pilot in the air force in India, so we moved a lot. The schools that I enrolled in were unassuming. Sometimes no educators could teach in English, so I was handed a book, told to study by myself, and show up for the exam. The classrooms were sparse and barely furnished.

Nevertheless, I loved every minute of it. I loved studying under trees and hanging our socks to dry on the windowsill after getting wet in the rain. I ran wild amongst the trees, playing Indian games that took up hours of our time. Our teachers sometimes told us they needed a chai, so we could skip our lessons, run amuck and enjoy the Indian sun beating down on us as we played on the school lawns.

When the pandemic hit in 2020, I taught at an international school in Gurgaon, India. Rather than feeling discouraged by being confined to my home, I was empowered for the first time in my life to use technology to the fullest. I could use any app I wanted to teach my students, take them on virtual trips and twist technology to help us grow together. As a result, I thrived during the pandemic and ensured my students never lost out on their passion for learning. My school regularly kept us updated on the latest trends in tech, ensuring that we had access to everything we needed. But when I looked around me, I could see teachers struggling.

The battle with technology was authentic for others. I tried to help those around me as best I could, but I could see frustration building. That’s when I began wondering what teachers around India do if they don’t have the same resources as me? Most didn’t have schools with ICT teams bursting with ideas to upskill and adapt to new teaching practices.

I share content because I think of the teachers who are passionate about their calling but are frustrated. I create content hoping that my resources will be a ready reckoner for someone struggling with tech.

What were those teachers around the country doing about social and emotional learning? Did anyone guide them toward strategies that would promote student and teacher well-being? Resources are scarce in government schools around India, especially in small villages. That’s when I decided to be a resource for those who are struggling by starting a blog on progressive teaching methodologies.

I began writing. With no followers, sometimes it felt like I was talking to a wall. I didn’t know if anyone out there was reading my blogs or if I was helping anyone the way I had hoped. Then, my blog began to include everything I learned and more. I started creating visible thinking routines to help educators get the best out of their students. And lo and behold, my readership slowly began to grow.

I share content because I think of the teachers who are passionate about their calling but are frustrated. After all, they feel alone. I create content hoping that my resources will be a ready reckoner for someone struggling with tech. I hope my subject matter reaches the teachers who need an AHA moment in their class, connecting with students and realizing they need to keep being the light that shines for others.

I began writing articles for edu-publications worldwide, hoping to get my ideas across oceans of separation. When I finally began to get published, people told me that it was apparent that I would get those opportunities as I wrote well and had gained followers globally. That was when I started sharing my rejection letters with my followers on social media. I wanted people to understand that my limited successes were interspersed with numerous rejections and failures. For every article I managed to get published, I had at least 5-6 rejection letters from other publishers for the same piece of writing.

The main message I want to share with my readers is to dream. Never let someone tell you you’re not their cup of tea. There is someone out there who believes in you and will support you. You must have the will to keep going after failing if you believe in your actions.

Teaching is challenging. I’m sure other educators will attest to that. There are good days and bad days. With my content, I hope to keep the circle of sharing rolling. I take pleasure in getting feedback and getting into discussions with educators who are passionate about their line of work. The more we share, the stronger we become—together.

Sanam Edwards is a teacher in Gurgaon (India). She enjoys building the student’s voice and choice within the classroom environment while infusing her quirky sense of humour into daily activities. She’s an advocate for technology in the classroom and is constantly on the lookout for new ways to engage the students mentally and emotionally. She regularly blogs about her forays in the education sector at www.reviewmirror.in