Shepherds on the South Downs used to make dewponds lined with clay for their sheep to drink from, to prevent the water draining away through the chalk landscape.

On my allotment I have a modern version of this: a small wildlife pond.

Over the past century, more than half of ponds in the UK have been lost. With many species relying on freshwater to survive, one of the best things you can do for wildlife is to create one in your garden. Dragonflies, frogs, newts, pond snails, barn swallows and hedgehogs all need freshwater to thrive.

Spring is the best time to put in a new pond. If you have only a small space, you can even make one in an oak half barrel. Siting is crucial. Think about safety. If you have young children, you may want to wait a few years before making your pond, or fence it off. Avoid overhanging trees and choose a place that gets plenty of sunshine for at least part of the day.

Mark out the shape before you start digging, using a piece of rope or a hosepipe. Natural curves work best. If you can, dig down to around 60-90cm at the deepest point, to give pondlife somewhere to hibernate beneath the ice in winter. Include a planting ledge at about 30-45cm and make sure there are sloping margins so wildlife can enter and exit.

Remove any stones from the bottom of the hole, then make a soft base layer from fleece or old carpet. There are many different pond-liners available, with butyl rubber one of the most popular. Once you have lined your pond, it's a good idea to add a layer of gravel to the bottom. Rainwater is best to fill it, but you can also use tap water. Make a trench around the perimeter to tuck in the edge of the lining, and backfill this with soil, using turf, gravel or flagstones to cover any gaps.

Where possible choose native species for your pond, planted in baskets filled with aquatic compost. Once you've put your plants in, cover the soil with grit to stop it loating away. Check the recommended planting depth and, if necessary, use stacked bricks as a support.

There are four different categories of pond plants. Firstly, oxygenators are crucial to avoid your pond going stagnant without the use of a pump. Starwort (Callitriche stagnalis) and hornwort (Ceratophyllum dermersum) are good options.

Next, floating leaf plants help cool the water and prevent algae. These include frogbit (Hydrocharis morsus-ranae) with small lily-like white flowers, water crowfoot (Ranunculus peltatus) and water smartweed (Persicaria amphibia).

Marginal plants such as marsh marigolds (Caltha palustris), water mint (Mentha aquatica) and cuckoo flower (Cardamine pratensis) live around the edge of a pond and are great for frogs and toads to shelter in. Newts also lay their eggs in these soft edging plants.

Finally, emergent vegetation such as flag irises (Iris pseudacorus), sedges (Carex) and flowering rushes (Butomus umbellatus) are great for dragonfly and damselfly nymphs to crawl up before hatching out into adults.

If you have only a balcony or courtyard or live in a rented property, you can make a wildlife pond using an old oak half barrel. Ensure it is watertight and then add your plants in baskets.