News

Sponsored

Events

The Chiefs Forum: The Next 100 Days

Podcasts

A weekend listen: To work, or not, on the Sabbath

LATEST: The fatal optimism of the ‘90s

Democracy and free markets did not conquer all

What became of sin? Let’s call LGBTQIA+ movement what it is

Democrats, the media and their ‘birthing people’ nonsense

Standing up to schoolyard bullies: Colleges need to pay for censorship, campus violence

Does corporate activism help determine where you spend your money?

It depends on the issue

It depends on the product

View results

Government forces guard the entrance of hotel after an armed confrontation near Puerto Morelos, Mexico, Thursday, November 4, 2021. Two suspected drug dealers were killed after gunmen from competing gangs staged a dramatic shootout near upscale hotels that sent foreign … more >

Seven people, including one child, were killed in a shooting Saturday when armed men stormed a Mexican resort, according to authorities.

Officials said another person was seriously injured during the attack at La Palma resort in Cortazar, a city located in central Mexico’s state of Guanajuato.

The assailants took security cameras and destroyed a resort shop before fleeing, according to Reuters. Among the dead are three men, three women and a 7-year-old child.

Survivors posted videos of the incident showing vacationers running around the resort grounds as a number of the victims’ bodies were seen in a shaded area.

No motive for the attack was given by authorities, but The Associated Press reported that Guanajuato has been the site of gang wars between the Jalisco New Generation drug cartel and smaller criminal groups backed by the Sinaloa cartel.

Bystanders have been killed in attacks throughout Guanajuato, including a November shootout at a bar that left nine dead and a pool hall shooting in September where 10 people were killed.

Guanajuato has the highest number of homicides of any of Mexico’s 32 states. According to government figures, more than 2,100 murders were registered in the state between January and August last year.

• This article is based in part on wire service reports.

• Matt Delaney can be reached at mdelaney@washingtontimes.com.

Copyright © 2023 The Washington Times, LLC.                                                     Click

here for reprint permission.

Click to Read More and View Comments