ELECTRIC vehicle owners have just days to claim a $7,500 tax credit before the government restricts access to the fund.

From April 18, plug-in hybrid, hydrogen and electric-powered car owners must meet new regulations to receive the credit.

They include proving their vehicle, and its components, were manufactured in the US.

But there are two sneaky workarounds for car owners that no longer meet the restrictions.

The first is by buying an electric and hydrogen car used.

Used EVs are eligible for either a $4,000 tax credit or a 30 percent of the sale price, whichever is lower.

Consumers looking to get the $4,000 used car credit must meet the following criteria:

* Car must be $25,000 or cheaper

* Car must be older than 2 model years

* Car must be purchased from a licensed dealer

* Owners household income must be under $75,000 for singles and $150,000 for married couples

"If the new vehicle you want isn’t eligible [for the $7,500 credit], you might be able to save some money [buying a used EV] and get a tax credit," Ingrid Malmgren, policy director at Plug In America, told CNBC.

Consumers can also exploit a loophole in the policy if they lease the car.

Leased clean cars are not as heavily regulated, according to Malmgren.

Malmgren said: "There are very few restrictions that apply" to car leases.

"Most of the manufacturers have been indicating really clearly they’ll pass the whole amount through [to consumers]."

According to NPR, car manufacturers have scrambled to update their manufacturing policies to maintain the credits.

GM said that the Bolt EV SUV is eligible for part of the tax incentive - the company has been on-shoring production lines to make their car eligible.

Same for Tesla - the company is working to shift their metals procurement for the Model 3 to North America.

A new payment process is rolling in next year.

Instead of claiming the credits at the end of the tax year, car buyers can use the $7,500 or $4,000 in cash up-front at the dealership.

Originally, sedans under $55,000 and SUVs under $80,000 manufactured in North America were eligible for the rebate.

The 2022 law, the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA),  had two incentives, according to the White House.

"The Inflation Reduction Act lowers energy costs for consumers and small businesses while creating good-paying jobs as America’s clean energy economy and manufacturing sectors grow," the White House claims.

The government decided to change the standards after critics claimed the investments were going to off-shore companies.

Without the new standards, carmakers were incentivized to mine critical minerals in countries that are not American trading partners.

The new standards aim to re-shore manufacturing effort in the US.