Data Knights Acquisition (NASDAQ:DKDCA – Get Rating) is one of 41 public companies in the “Commercial physical research” industry, but how does it weigh in compared to its competitors? We will compare Data Knights Acquisition to similar companies based on the strength of its profitability, dividends, earnings, analyst recommendations, valuation, institutional ownership and risk.

78.5% of Data Knights Acquisition shares are owned by institutional investors. Comparatively, 57.5% of shares of all “Commercial physical research” companies are owned by institutional investors. 23.1% of Data Knights Acquisition shares are owned by company insiders. Comparatively, 12.8% of shares of all “Commercial physical research” companies are owned by company insiders. Strong institutional ownership is an indication that hedge funds, endowments and large money managers believe a company is poised for long-term growth.

This table compares Data Knights Acquisition and its competitors revenue, earnings per share and valuation.

Data Knights Acquisition’s competitors have higher revenue and earnings than Data Knights Acquisition. Data Knights Acquisition is trading at a higher price-to-earnings ratio than its competitors, indicating that it is currently more expensive than other companies in its industry.

This is a breakdown of current ratings and target prices for Data Knights Acquisition and its competitors, as reported by MarketBeat.com.

As a group, “Commercial physical research” companies have a potential upside of 31.14%. Given Data Knights Acquisition’s competitors  higher probable upside, analysts clearly believe Data Knights Acquisition has less favorable growth aspects than its competitors.

Data Knights Acquisition has a beta of 0.02, indicating that its stock price is 98% less volatile than the S&P 500. Comparatively, Data Knights Acquisition’s competitors have a beta of 5.26, indicating that their average stock price is 426% more volatile than the S&P 500.

This table compares Data Knights Acquisition and its competitors’ net margins, return on equity and return on assets.

Data Knights Acquisition beats its competitors on 6 of the 10 factors compared.

Data Knights Acquisition Corp. does not have significant operations. It intends to effect a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization, or similar business combination with one or more businesses in the data centers and internet technology sectors. The company was incorporated in 2021 and is based in Chessington, the United Kingdom.

Receive News & Ratings for Data Knights Acquisition Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Data Knights Acquisition and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter.