Emily Rebekah Haag, 27, of Smithfield, Utah, passed away in her mother’s arms on Tuesday, April 11, 2023.

She is survived by her parents, John & Robyn Haag, brothers Joshua, Miles (Elise), Caleb, & Benjamin, Grandparents David & Betty Guess, Grandmother Rosetta Haag, and a multitude of cousins, aunts, uncles, and chosen family who’ve known and loved her throughout her short life.

Emily was preceded in death by her Grandfather, Jerreld Haag and her Great Grandmother Virginia Hodges.

A gifted artist from a young age, she was also a budding photographer with an array of incredible photographs to her name. Recently, Emily fell in love with gardening and plants of all kinds and proudly dubbed herself a plant lady. Of course, she made a new circle of friends every time she picked up a new hobby, started a new job, or encountered a new volunteer opportunity.

After graduating from Sky View High School in 2013, Emily followed in her Dad’s footsteps and joined the United States Army, serving honorably for 6 years. During this time, Emily worked with individuals with disabilities, volunteered with Utah Families Feeding Families, and the Logan Veteran Center.

Upon completion of her service to her country, Emily continued to advocate for and serve the communities of Cache Valley who needed it most. Those who knew and loved our girl knew she was special, sensitive and tender-hearted, absolutely selfless, and a lover of people, animals, nature, art, and travel.

We will miss opening our phones to a sneak attack love bomb of Emily’s goofy face and silly selfies, and for some reason, almost always one camera view straight up her nose. Her constant stream of funny videos, sent through various social media platforms, are already sorely missed. We surely have an endless supply of videos and pictures yet undiscovered, as she would almost always have her camera out to record all the magical moments of her life.

Her sweet giggles that turned into snorts, the mischievous look she had when she was up to something hilarious, and the glow on her face when she succeeded in helping a fellow soul will be ingrained in our hearts and memories forever.

In her final rest, Emily will join the many friends she lost during her life, including Carson, Amanda, Brayden, and Elva. She was especially close to Elva “Lala” Torres, a battle buddy and close friend until Lala’s unexpected passing in 2019. Those who knew and loved both Emily and Lala would probably heartily agree that these two have likely already founded the first E4 Mafia of the afterlife.

In keeping with her generous spirit and desire to give everything she had, Emily’s last act of love and sacrifice was to donate her kidneys to two individuals who we hope and pray live very long and healthy lives.

Services to celebrate Emily’s life will be held at 11:00 am Saturday April 22, 2023 at the LDS Stake Center located at 451 S 250 E, Smithfield, Utah.

In lieu of gifts and flowers, the family is accepting memorial donations.

You can donate directly to the funeral home to help with Emily’s memorial fees by following this link Donate To Funeral or through the GoFundMe account that has been set up.

Condolences and memories may be shared with the family at Franklin County Funeral Home.