One of the very few reasons I use Instagram is to stay updated on car news, and as soon as I saw the photos of the new Porsche Cayenne, I thought to myself—it doesn’t look all that different—from the outside. But Porsche confirmed that we’re not looking at the 4th gen Cayenne but an “overhauled third generation” Cayenne. Apparently, there’s still some time for a new generation.

One of the key changes you’d probably notice immediately are those new headlights called the HD Matrix LED headlights we read about earlier this year. At the rear, there’s a new connected taillight design. The front and rear bumpers have got subtle revisions, and of course, there are new wheel designs with sizes ranging from 20- to 22-inches. There’s also an expanded color palette with three new colors, and lightweight sports packages saving up to 33 kg (73 lbs) for the Cayenne Coupé.

The new Cayenne rolls off the factory with a steel spring suspension setup including Porsche Active Suspension Management (PASM) system. There are shock absorbers with 2-valve technology, enabling separate rebound and compression stages for optimized performance in all driving situations. In particular, comfort at slow speeds, handling during dynamic cornering, and pitch and roll support have been noticeably improved, the company added in an official release.

There’s also a new version of the adaptive air suspension with 2-chamber, 2-valve technology, which I believe is gonna be an optional extra. The air suspension—among other things—is said to reduce body movements in dynamic driving situations, and also offers an even sharper differentiation between Normal, Sport and Sport Plus driving modes.

We already went over the new Cayenne’s interior—in detail in the previous post. But just to recap—in simple terms, the new Cayenne aims to offer a perfect blend of analog and digital controls. A 10.9-inch passenger display is an optional extra.

Besides all this tech, another key highlight of the new Cayenne is an air quality system that is said to use predictive navigation data to detect approaching tunnel entrances and automatically activate air recirculation. Optionally, a sensor detects the level of fine dust particles in the air and passes it through the fine dust filter multiple times if necessary. Furthermore, an ionizer removes germs and pollutants from the air.

Updated driver assistance systems include the active speed limiter and swerve assist, the cornering assist, and the improved Porsche InnoDrive as part of the adaptive cruise control.

Powertrain options

Moving on to the juicy bits of the story, the Cayenne S now packs a 4.0L V8 biturbo motor (replacing the V6) with 349 kW (474 metric hp) and 600 Nm (443 lb-ft). Both SUV and coupe-SUV models are claimed to sprint from 0-100 km/h (62 mph) in 4.7 seconds and on to a top speed of 273 km/h (170 mph). The base Cayenne model rolls off the assembly line with a 3.0L V6 turbo petrol engine with 260 kW (353 metric hp) and 500 Nm (369 lb-ft).

The Cayenne E-Hybrid packs the aforementioned V6 petrol engine combined with a new 130 kW (177 metric hp) electric motor, offering a combined power output of 346 kW (470 metric hp). Porsche claims a combined pure-electric WLTP range of between 66 to 74 km (41-46 mi), thanks to upgrading the battery pack capacity from 17.9 kWh to 25.9 kWh. A new 11 kW onboard charger now shortens the charging time.

The new Cayenne Turbo GT continues to pack a 4.0L V8 biturbo motor, but this time around, the power output has been increased by 14 kW (19 metric hp) to 485 kW (659 metric hp). However, the 0-100 km/h (62 mph) sprint time has remained unchanged at 3.3 seconds while the top speed is now 305 km/h (189 mph).