The 28th game of the Indian Premier League (IPL) 2023 will see the David Warner's Delhi Capitals and Nitish Rana's Kolkata Knight Riders lock horns at the Arun Jaitley Stadium in Delhi on April 20. Delhi have got off to the worst of starts in the tournament and are coming on the back of five consecutive losses.

It will be interesting to see what changes Delhi make in their lineup when they take on two-time champions KKR in the upcoming game. The Knight Riders are coming into the game on the back of consecutive defeats too and will be keen on getting back to winning ways.

Skipper David Warner has been consistently amassing runs for Delhi in the IPL 2023. The 36-year-old has scored 228 runs in five matches so far. However, the issue has been his strike rate, which is 116.92 currently. In Delhi’s previous game, Warner only managed 19 off 13. The skipper would be keen on finding ways to help Delhi register their first win of the season when they take on Kolkata.

Indians batter Prithvi Shaw has had a horrid run in the tournament so far. The 23-year-old has only managed to score 34 runs in five matches. In his previous game, Shaw ran himself out for a duck, continuing his poor form. He would look to put in an improved performance in the next game and gain some much needed confidence.

Manish Pandey put in a resilient performance in Delhi’s last and accumulated 50 off 38 deliveries. Despite the knock being in vain, Pandey would be expected to follow up with yet another impressive performance.

Meanwhile, Mitchell Marsh has failed to make an impact with the bat so far in the IPL 2023. He was dismissed for a duck against RCB, however, Marsh took two wickets and conceded 18 in the two overs. If he is able to pick up his form with the bat, Delhi could have a particularly solid middle-order.

Coming in as a replacement for injured skipper Rishabh Pant, Abishek Porel has been unable to impress. In four matches so far, Porel has only managed to score 33 runs. Delhi will be depending on the youngster to come good in the forthcoming matches.

Lalit Yadav has been in decent form at the ongoing T20 carnival. The all-rounder managed to score just four runs but took a wicket while conceding 29 runs in four overs against RCB. If Delhi are looking to register their first win of the season, Lalit Yadav would have to be at the top of his game.

Axar Patel has undoubtedly been one of the best performers for Delhi Capitals this season. With 129 runs in five games and two wickets to his name, Axar would be expected to put in another fabulous performance against KKR in the forthcoming match.

Kuldeep Yadav put in an excellent performance in the previous assignment as he struck twice and conceded just 23 runs against RCB. If Delhi are looking to avoid their sixth straight loss, Kuldeep’s form will be crucial for the side. Meanwhile, Anrich Nortje failed to make an impact so far with just two wickets in four games. Nortje would be keen on picking his form and contributing in his team's quest of winning their first game in IPL 2023.

Mustafizur Rahman had a night to forget against RCB as the Bangladesh pacer conceded 41 runs in the three overs. He would look to get some wickets ahead and make a strong case for himself at the tournament. Meanwhile, Khaleel Ahmed has played three games so far and has picked three wickets. He would be expected to come into the squad against the Nitish Rana-led side and provide them with important breakthroughs.