In their book God’s Final Victory, philosophers John Kronen and Eric Reitan present an argument for universal salvation based on the efficacious grace of God. They lay it out in five steps:

It is always possible for God to extend to the unregenerate efficacious grace; that is, a form of grace sufficient by itself to guarantee their salvation (i.e. sufficient to bring about all that is necessary for salvation, including relevant subjective acts such as sincere repentance and conversion).

Making use of efficacious grace to save the unregenerate is morally permissible for God, at least when the recipient would not otherwise have been saved.

It is therefore possible and permissible for God to save all through the exercise of efficacious grace (1, 2).

If God has a morally permissible means or saving all, then God will save all.

Therefore, God will save all (3, 4).1

I have not often explicitly availed myself of the Western notion of efficacious grace in my arguments on universal salvation, though it has made its appearance under different guises in articles on David Bentley Hart and Sergius Bulgakov.2 Hart speaks of humanity as having been created with an innate desire for and attraction to the Good:

No one can freely will the evil as evil; one can take the evil for the good, but that does not alter the prior transcendental orientation that wakens all desire. To see the good truly is to desire it insatiably; not to desire it is not to have known it, and so never to have been free to choose it.3

Given humanity’s ineradicable engraced orientation to the Good, all God need do is remove the ignorance and disordered passions that inhibit sinful human beings from apprehending the Good and thus embracing the happiness to which they are destined in Jesus Christ. “To see the good truly is to desire it insatiably.”

Bulgakov speaks of humanity as having been created in the image of Jesus Christ. When Christ reveals himself to us at the Last Judgment, we will see ourselves within the proto-image and know who we are, who we are intended to become and be. In Christ and through Christ we will apprehend the fundamental truth of our existence:

This proto-image is Christ. Every human being sees himself in Christ and measures the extent of his difference from this proto-image. A human being cannot fail to love the Christ who is revealed in him, and he cannot fail to love himself revealed in Christ. The two things are the same. Such is human ontology. Love is the Holy Spirit, who sets the heart afire with this love. But this love, this blazing up of the Spirit, is also the judgment of the individual upon himself, his vision of himself outside himself, in conflict with himself, that is, outside Christ and far from Christ. And the measure and knowledge of this separation are determined by Love, that is, by the Holy Spirit. The same fire, the same love gladdens and burns, torments and gives joy. The judgment of love is the most terrible judgment, more terrible than that of justice and wrath, than that of the law, for it includes all this but also transcends it. . . . It is impossible to appear before Christ and to see Him without loving him.4

The divine judgment effects irresistible conversion because because it confronts us with our true selves in Jesus Christ: irresistible because it declares the truth we already know in the depth of conscience; irresistible because it presents the good and happiness we have always desired; irresistible because it pours out upon us the ravishing love for which we have long sought.

For both Hart and Bulgakov, efficacious grace is grounded in humanity’s created being. God acts in such a compelling revelatory way as to make it possible for humanity to see God as their true end, happiness, and glory. Grace is not an divine act extrinsic to their created nature but its healing and liberation. Theologians  will immediately note the Eastern Christian commitments of Hart and Bulgakov. Both eschew a hard distinction between nature and supernature. Grace is not a donum superadditum. Human nature is engraced from the beginning in its natural orientation to the Holy Trinity, which continues after the Fall. Grace is the Holy Spirit acting to restore human beings to their true humanity in the Incarnate Son.

Which brings us back to Kronen and Reitan. They define efficacious grace as follows:

“Efficacious grace”—grace that is sufficient by itself to save sinners, because it transforms their characters so that they fully repent of all past sins and embrace God without reservation.5

“Efficacious grace” refers traditionally to that species of grace sufficient by itself to fully convert creatures, such that all who receive it are saved.6

According to the Thomists and their Protestant followers, when God grants efficacious grace, He guarantees conversion and regeneration by putting creatures in a state that influences their motives such that they have every reason to respond favourably to the offer of salvation and no reason not to.7

By these definitions Hart and Bulgakov may be understood as advocates of efficacious grace.

In their elaboration of divine grace, Kronen and Reitan identify two propositions that ground their argument from efficacious grace:

Every rational creature is naturally ordered to the good.

This means that every person not only seeks to attain that which is good for them but they seek seek union with the God who is their objective, supreme, and ultimate good. As a result, every rational creature is “naturally disposed to imitate God insofar as its nature allows.”9 This entails the conclusion that rational creatures are necessitated to love the good, under the right conditions:

For Aquinas, just as the intellect is ordered to truth, so the will is ordered to goodness. Hence, just as the intellect cannot fail to believe a self-evident truth if it is presented to it, so the will cannot fail to love the the perfect good if that good is presented to it. This good, however, is God, and so only God, if clearly perceived, necessitates the will to love [ST pt. 1, q. 82, a. 2].10

Why do rational beings turn away from God if he is their good?

If efficacious grace infallibly grants conversion to God, how does it not compromise human freedom?

In answer to both questions, the authors turn to Thomas Talbott and his presentation of rational freedom, which they believe is very close to Aquinas’ own understanding. “Like Aquinas,” they write, “Talbott insists that one cannot imagine anyone freely choosing what they have no motive to choose and every motive not to choose. Such a choice, for Talbott, is incoherent. If one is in a condition such that all one’s motives converge on one choice, Talbott thinks this choice becomes inevitable.”11 Such an inevitable choice may be considered a free choice under certain conditions: (1) the absence of ignorance and deception and (2) the absence of controlling affective states that determine the person’s actions. The authors offer this provocative illustration:

Suppose Jenny grows up in a dystopian future where children are fed an addictive drug from infancy. They are taught (falsely) to believe that the drug is a medicine they need to stay healthy, while in fact the tyrannical regime uses it to control the people. Given her addiction and beliefs, Jenny’s motives converge on the choice to continue taking the drug; but insofar as this choice is governed by deception and addiction, it is not free in Talbott’s sense.

However, suppose a resistance group reveals to Jenny the truth. She now knows the drug is harmful but remains addicted. Hence, she has reason-based motives to stop taking the drug, but these are impotent due to her addiction. Now suppose the resistance gives her a counter-drug that weakens but does not stop her cravings. Whenever she is near the drug she faces an inner struggle. Sometimes, with the right support (and some luck), she resists her craving; but usually she falls prey to it, weeping in shame at her weakness. At this point we might say that she has some measure of freedom—but it remains constrained by the hold the drug continues to exert on her.

However, imagine that the resistance finds a way to break her addiction. Now she neither craves the drug nor thinks taking it is a good idea. Let us suppose, furthermore, that she has no other motive to continue taking it but many reasons not to: concern for her health and continued sobriety, gratitude to her liberators, a desire to oppose the unjust regime, and so forth. Suppose, in short, that once freed of her addiction, all her motives converge on the choice not to take the drug. Would we not say that now, at last, her choice is truly free—even if, as Talbott and Aquinas believe, her rejecting the drug is now inevitable?12

Kronen and Reitan note that the above illustration demonstrates the inadequacy of both libertarian and compatibilist explanations of freedom. Prior to Jenny’s liberation from her addiction, her choice to take the drug qualifies as a free choice according to a compatibilist understanding of freedom (Jenny chooses according to her preferences and desires), but does not qualify as free according to Talbott. After her liberation, Jenny’s choice to refuse the drug qualifies as free according to Talbott, but not according to a libertarian understanding of freedom (Jenny cannot rationally choose otherwise). What makes the difference? In the former, reason is unable to exercise its right function; in the latter, reason is “no longer impeded from playing the role it ought to play in decision making.”13

Underlying Talbott’s construal of rational freedom are four presuppositions:

* values are objective, such that there are objectively good or best choices and objectively bad ones;

* the rational faculty makes judgments in accord with its finite grasp of this objective order of values;

* the will can be controlled by non-rational forces (such as addictions or entrenched habits);

* the will is naturally ordered to choose in accord with rational judgments such that it inevitably does so in the absence of any non-rational controlling factors.14

The will, in other words, is naturally ordered to follow reason—its default setting, as Kronen and Reitan put it—and reason is naturally ordered to identify the objective good. When all is working rightly—there are no contrary affective states to disrupt the reasoning and willing process—our actions may be appropriately judged as free.

By rough analogy, the actions of the resistance to liberate Jenny from her false beliefs and addiction may be thought of  as an expression of efficacious grace. “If efficacious grace is a divine act producing uniformly salvation-favouring motives,” then not only does it not contravene freedom but establishes it.15 “Efficacious grace in this sense, rather than interfering with rational freedom, appears to be its culmination.”16

But is it possible for God to effectively remove the destructive affective states that inhibit freedom without violating personal autonomy? Given the divine omnipotence, surely we must think so. After all, this is his world which he has created, and is creating, from out of nothing. There are no apparent metaphysical reasons why he could not directly heal the disordered desires of human beings by the bestowal of grace. Nor is God a finite agent who needs to violently invade his creatures in order to effect change within them. The Creator/creature relationship is too intimate for that kind of coercive intervention. The real question is not whether

God can bring about uniformly salvation-favouring motives in the unregenerate, but whether He can do so in a way that promotes rather than impedes rational freedom. In fact, we think an omnipotent being could do both, such that it is within God’s power to bestow efficacious grace without violating freedom—at least if ‘freedom’ is understood in this Thomistic sense.17

Kronen and Reitan propose two ways in which the omnipotent God might accomplish the transformation of sinners.

First, God might present himself in an immediate, unclouded experience of himself:

For rational creatures, this ordering to the good and to God takes a special form. Rational creatures, by definition, can choose based on reasons—that is, they are motivated to act not merely by instinct or appetite, but by the recognition that certain apprehended truths (reasons) entail that a course of action is good to do. Saying that rational creatures are ordered to the good means two things: first, when they directly and clearly encounter the perfect good in unclouded experience, they will recognize it as the perfect good; and second, the perfect good (which, by definition, is the standard according to which all other goods are measured) would, under conditions of immediate and unclouded apprehension, present itself as overridingly worthy of love. Creatures’ subjective values will thus spontaneously fall into harmony with the objective good, with all choices reflecting this proper valuation.

Put another way, immediate awareness of the perfect good will so sing to the natural inclinations of the soul that love for the good will swamp all potentially contrary affective states. One would have every reason to conform one’s will to the perfect good and no reason not to. This latter point gains further strength from the Christian notion that what is prudentially good for rational creatures (what promotes their welfare) does not ultimately conflict with what is morally good—both are realized through union with God. Unclouded apprehension of the perfect good will thus harmonize prudential and moral motives such that every rational creature presented with a clear vision of God would have every reason to love God and no reason to reject Him.18

Second, God might bestow on the unregenerate the gift of wisdom to enable them to choose truly:

Aquinas believed that God could grant efficacious grace to rational creatures, even without bestowing a clear vision of Himself, by first granting a person the ‘gift of wisdom and council [such] that his reason should in no way err regarding [either) the end [God] or the means [to the end) in particular.’19

With Aristotle, Thomas understood that disordered passions often prevent a person from doing what reason dictates they should do. God, however, can counteract a person’s disordered desires by “1) granting ‘infused virtues’ so that ‘his will is more firmly inclined to God’, and 2) divinely inspiring his ‘mind to resist sin’ whenever an ‘occasion for it presents itself’.”20  Thomas, however, acknowledges that sinlessness may not be achievable for human beings in this life, though he notes the exception of the Blessed Virgin, was so confirmed in grace that she was made capable of living in unblemished communion with God. Thankfully, sinlessness in this life is not a condition for eternal salvation. Efficacious grace only guarantees glory—but what an awesome only.

One way or another, the omnipotent and gracious Savior will deliver us from our sin, ignorance, delusion, and interior bondage. In the words of Martin Luther: “When God works in us, the will is changed under the sweet influence of the Spirit of God. Once more it desires and acts, not of compulsion, but of its own desire and spontaneous inclination.”21

By our Lord’s gift of grace, the prophecy of Ezekiel will be made actual in the depths of every sinner:

A new heart I will give you, and a new spirit I will put within you; and I will take out of your flesh the heart of stone and give you a heart of flesh. And I will put my spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes and be careful to observe my ordinances. (Ezek 36:26-27)

The bestowal of efficacious grace is but the realization and fulfillment of the resurrection of Jesus Christ in humanity..

[2] For Hart, see “Doomed to Happiness“; for Bulgakov, see “Irresistible Grace: Is Bulgakov and Augustinian?,” “Irresistible Grace: Our Secret Hope?,” and “The Irresistible Truth of Final Judgment.”

[3] David Bentley Hart, “God, Creation, and Evil,” The Hidden and the Manifest (2017), p. 345.

[4] Sergius Bulgakov, The Bride of the Lamb, pp. 457-459.

[7] Ibid., p. 132. This formulation is unusual. I do not recall a Thomist ever putting the matter quite like this, and I don’t imagine that Banezian Thomists will be satisfied with the “failure” to ground efficacious grace in physical premotion causality. But the emphasis on rational decision-making is crucial to the K&R thesis. The point is that God directly brings about the condition of rational clarity, thus leading to the inevitable embrace of God.

On efficacious grace in the Roman Catholic tradition, see the entries in the online Catholic Encyclopedia: “Actual Grace,” “Controversies on Grace.” For a vigorous Catholic defense of efficacious grace, see Reginald Garrigou Lagrange, Grace (1952), chaps. 6 and 7. For an equally vigorous defense from a classic Reformed perspective, see Francis Turretin, Institutes of Elenctic Theology, 15th topic.

[8] Ibid., p. 135. On God as the natural end of human beings, see pp. 68-80. The following proposition is an integral plank in K&R’s Argument from Complacent Love: “Every rational creature is naturally ordered towards union with God.” Ibid., p. 72. The authors explicitly reject the Catholic construal of natura pura. “Rational creatures are naturally ordered to union with God,” the authors explain,” because that is the only thing which, given what they are, will complete them and enable them to flourish.” Ibid., p. 78.

[13] Ibid. “Specifically, the Thomistic view is that what we call libertarian freedom is a coherent understanding of freedom only when the creature confronts conflicting motives for action. It does not extend to circumstances in which the creature has every reason to pursue a course of action and no reason not to. Under such circumstances the Thomistic view is that the will of the creature is not merely inclined but is determined to perform the act. The act remains wholly voluntary, but since there is no possible world in which an agent who has every motive to do A and no motive not to do so nevertheless refrains from doing A, the action is also determined, and so conforms to what is usually labelled ‘compatibilist freedom’ by contemporary philosophcrs.” Ibid., p. 132.

[17] Ibid., p. 135. I will return to the autonomy objection in Part Two.

[19] Ibid.,  p. 136. The quoted clause from Aquinas is from De Veritate q. 24 a. 9.

[20] Ibid., p. 137. Aquinas: “By the grace proper to this life, however, a man can be so attached to good that he cannot sin except with great difficulty because his lower powers are held in check by the infused virtues, his will is more firmly inclined to God, and his reason is made perfect in the contemplation of the divine truth with a continuousness that comes from the fervor of love and withdraws the man from sin.” De Veritate q. 24 a. 9.

[21] Martin Luther, The Bondage of the Will, trans. and ed. J. I. Packer and O.R. Johnston (1957), p. 103