Let me take a break from our Wilderness Passage posts to say a quick thank-you to everyone who ordered a signed copy of Govt Cheese: A Memoir. We’ve sent out twelve hundred so far, all packed by hand and trundled to the UPS store (actually a bunch of stores), in the VIP pack pictured below.

For all of us who are indie authors or are thinking of becoming one, this VIP pack is a really interesting idea.

I first saw one from my friend, the thriller writer Jack Carr. For his fourth book, Savage Son, Jack put together a gift box—not for promotion but just for friends who had helped him on his journey. He mailed about a hundred of them. The outside of the box was designed colorfully, with FIRST EDITION on the spine. Inside Jack put a bunch of fun-type premiums—a cocktail coaster, a refrigerator magnet, a note of thanks from him (there was even a little utility knife), and a few promotional items from his sponsors. And of course the first edition itself, signed.

I got one. It was a real giggle. I wound up doing a video “unboxing” on Instagram, as did many others who received the package.

I’m not sure how much this helped Jack’s sales, but it certainly didn’t hurt.

When we—my better half, Diana, and I—were considering how to bring out Govt Cheese so that it might get a little attention, we thought, “Let’s do a VIP pack. We won’t tell anyone it’s coming. It’ll be a surprise when it arrives via UPS.”

We hoped to get a few unboxings ourselves.

One, if you’re an indie author like I am, consider doing this—if not on your next book (or album or announcement of any kind), then on the proper item when it comes up down the line. It’s not cheap and it’s a lot of work. But it’s fun. And it’s definitely appreciated by those who receive it, particularly if they don’t know it’s coming and are expecting only a box with a signed book inside.

And two, if you’d like a VIP pack of Govt Cheese yourself, we’ve still got 250 of them. Click here and we’ll get one out to you right away.

The VIP pack won’t be a surprise but, trust me, it’ll still be fun.

Thanks again to all who ordered!

P. S. Govt Cheese: A Memoir is my story of my own “wilderness passage”—in gory detail, all twenty-seven years of it.