Wrexham owner Rob McElhenney and his wife Kaitlin Olson were in good spirits as they watched the Welsh football team play Yeovil Town at The Racecourse Ground in the town on Tuesday.

American actor Rob, 46 - who has been married to Kaitlin, 47, since 2009 and owns the soccer team with fellow Hollywood star Ryan Reynolds, 46 - was seen in the stands during the Vanarama National League match.

Rob and Kaitlin looked delighted as Wrexham triumphed 3 - 0 against Yeovil Town, with the pair smiling and waving to fans in the ground.

It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia star Rob cut a casual figure in a black and white jacket which he wore over a navy blue T-shirt.

He coordinated with actress Kaitlin who also wore a black and white coat in a different style.

She wore lashings of make-up to highlight her pretty features and accessorised with a pair of hoop earrings.

Also in attendance was actor Charlie Day, 47, who co-created FX comedy It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia with Rob.

Charlie wore a blue denim jacket over a top of the same colour while he donned a pair of black jeans.

The Welsh club have shot to international fame through the reality television series 'Welcome to Wrexham', which charts the fortunes of the team since their 2020 sale to Reynolds and McElhenney.

Wrexham have played in the fifth-tier National League for the last 15 years, but, revitalised by their celebrity owners, they are on the verge of a return to the professional ranks in League Two.

It comes after Rob and Ryan were awarded the freedom of the borough in a low-key ceremony earlier this month.

Deadpool actor Ryan, who it recently emerged has bought a £1.5million house in a village close to the Welsh town, and Rob received the honour after pumping in £10million as the club bids to return to the Football League.

However the ceremony – attended by invited councillors and other local dignitaries - took place behind closed doors, with only a film crew understood to be part of the team behind Disney Plus documentary series Welcome to Wrexham documenting the event.

Speaking at the ceremony, Ryan recalled his first encounter with the Wrexham supporters club over Zoom while the pair were attempting to launch their takeover in 2020. Wearing a Wrexham AFC jacket, he told dignitaries he didn't think 'I've ever been as nervy as I was in that exact moment'.

To laughter, he continued: 'And I realised I was wrong, and that was second only to going into a game with Notts County tied on 100 points!

'So I've not slept in a couple of days just in anticipation of this.'

Reynolds added that he was 'so touched that I get to be a part of this story'.

'I know that we're here so that you guys can thank us, for some reason. But I feel like it's the other way around and we want to thank you.

'What you've given us is something that I could never… words are too clumsy to quantify what it means to me, what it means to Rob…'

The award comes after civic leaders praised the duo for helping give the town 'global promotion'.

Council leader Mark Pritchard said: 'Football is the beating heart of our community and there's always been incredible passion and support for the club.

'We have an amazing story here in Wrexham, along with a unique character and identity that is winning fans all over the world.

'These two Hollywood actors have had an incredible impact on both the football club and the community and have helped catapult Wrexham onto the world stage.

'You couldn't wish to meet two nicer people - they really are two wonderful guys.'