PewterReport.com analyzes the top players in the 2023 NFL Draft with its position previews. Bailey Adams kicks things off by  previewing the quarterback position, with a comprehensive look at what the Bucs have and what they need at quarterback. Bailey also provides a detailed list of this year’s top quarterbacks. In addition, Scott Reynolds offers up the Bucs draft needs and the annual PewterReport.com Bucs’ Best Bets – the most likely quarterback for the Bucs to select in Rounds 1-3, and in Rounds 4-7.

What the Bucs have at quarterback in 2023 looks much different than it did in 2022. Last year at this time, Tampa Bay had survived a Tom Brady retirement scare, with the seven-time Super Bowl champion signal-caller retiring and then unretiring within the span of 40 days early in the offseason. This time around, there’s no “scare” about it: Brady retired for good on Feb. 1. So, after avoiding it last year, the team now has to step into the post-Brady era. That means opening up the Bucs’ first real quarterback competition in about a decade.

Once Brady retired and Blaine Gabbert hit free agency, the Bucs’ quarterback room included only 2021 second-round pick Kyle Trask. Team decision-makers and coaches spoke highly about the former Florida Gator early on in the offseason and said he would get a chance to be Brady’s successor, but they obviously acknowledged that they would need to bring in some veteran competition at the position en route to filling out the room.

That’s where Baker Mayfield entered the fray, signing with the Bucs on a one-year deal in free agency. The 2018 No. 1 overall pick of the Browns, Mayfield split the 2022 season between the Panthers and Rams. Now, he gets a fresh start in Tampa Bay. He and Trask figure to be the team’s two primary choices at the quarterback position this offseason, and that’s a battle that will likely continue into – and through – training camp and the preseason.

The Bucs may not need to spend a premium pick on a quarterback in 2023, but they definitely need another one or two to fill out their QB room. The Bucs draft plans could mean drafting one late, signing one or two as undrafted free agents or maybe bringing in a rookie while signing a veteran who can compete with that rookie for the third-string role. Perhaps longtime Buc Ryan Griffin will still be in the mix as a training camp arm, practice squad quarterback and/or veteran voice of the group. Long story short, there’s currently no one behind Mayfield and Trask on the depth chart.

Tampa Bay certainly won’t rule anything out, as general manager Jason Licht always says. The team theoretically could draft a signal-caller early, adding a third candidate into the mix for the starting job. However, the Bucs want to see what they have in Trask, and spending a premium pick on another quarterback would likely prevent that chance. That would also mean Licht and Co. wasted a second-round pick in 2021.

Time will tell if that was the case anyway, but the team needs to give itself a chance to figure out what it has in the 25-year-old before moving on to another young rookie. That’s why a late-round QB would be more likely than a Day 1 or 2 QB.

*Important Note: These players are NOT listed in the order of Pewter Report’s ranking for them. Rather, the numbers are provided to show you the rough order in which we expect them to come off the board during the draft.

Young has outstanding pocket presence and processes the game exceptionally quickly. Alabama head coach Nick Saban compared his playing style to that of a point guard, as he’s able to see the whole field well and distribute the ball at an elite level. Not to mention, he can play out of structure and create something out of nothing. There’s nothing overly special about Young’s arm strength, but he’s accurate and can make all the throws. After all, over two years as the Crimson Tide’s starter, he threw for 8,200 yards and 79 touchdowns to just 12 interceptions. He won the Heisman Trophy in 2021 and made a case again in 2022 with 3,328 yards and 32 scores to five interceptions.

Of course, the biggest knock on Young is his size. At 5-foot-10, 204 pounds, he’ll be the smallest quarterback in the league once he gets drafted. And while he weighed in at 204 pounds at the NFL Scouting Combine, his playing weight is below 200 pounds. That didn’t hamper him with the big boys of the SEC, to be fair. But that doesn’t mean questions won’t persist about his durability and how well he’ll hold up physically over the course of his career. Nonetheless, Young’s natural ability and outstanding mental game makes him QB1 in the 2023 class.

Stroud, a California kid like Young, has a case for being borderline QB1 in this class. He started for two years at Ohio State, totaling 8,123 yards and 85 touchdowns to 12 interceptions. The two-time Big Ten Offensive Player of the Year possesses strong footwork and looks smooth in the pocket. With top-tier protection, he can comfortably pick defenses apart from the pocket. He is very accurate and displays an ability to throw away from defenders, making him a turnover-averse quarterback. Overall, he is technically sound and does everything right at the position. He is a natural leader and maintains a coolness under pressure, something that served him well on the big stage during his college career.

Stroud showed late in his career with the Buckeyes that he does have some elusiveness to his game. That much became clear. But the big negative about him has long been that he gets too comfortable staying in the pocket and doesn’t tap into the improvisational side of the game all that much. His elusiveness is nothing special and ball security from the pocket became a problem at the collegiate level, as evidenced by his 10 career fumbles. But the more he shows that he can be a rushing threat, the higher his ceiling becomes. Even as it stands, though, Stroud has impeccable touch and above-average ability as a passer. That will serve him well wherever he ends up.

Richardson is perhaps the most polarizing quarterback prospect in this year’s draft. Physically, he’s extremely impressive. He has all the tools, but over his short college career with the Gators, his production didn’t match those tools. His arm strength and ability as a runner are big pluses. The Gainesville product has no problem getting the ball downfield, at least in terms of distance. It’s the accuracy that isn’t quite up to speed with his arm talent. He proved to be a difficult guy to bring down, too, totaling 39 broken tackles last year. The athleticism, speed and strength are off the charts with Richardson, but there are other areas of his game that need to catch up.

The biggest issue with Richardson at this stage is his accuracy. He completed less than 60% of his passes at Florida, and he misses open receivers far too frequently. It’s not that he can’t get the ball to his receivers – it’s that he does so at an inconsistent rate. With some mechanical work at the next level, that could change. It’s also worth noting that Richardson is very young and is still in the early stages of his development as a quarterback. The raw talent is there with him, and that’s what will excite a team enough to draft him in the Top 15.

Levis has seen his stock rise and fall the most among these quarterbacks, but he still figures to go in the Top 20. He’s another prospect who has impressive physical tools, with a good build and elite arm strength. With a quick release, high velocity on his throws and the ability to withstand pressure, there’s a lot to love about him in the pocket. But there’s plenty to like about him outside the pocket, too, as he displayed a lot of escapability and playmaking ability during his time at Kentucky. He ran for 17 touchdowns over four seasons, with nine of those coming in 2021.

Levis was more up-and-down in 2022 than he was in 2021, and that often came down to decision-making. He forced too many throws and locked in on receivers too much, leading to some questions about his processing. As much as he has to offer as a dual-threat type, he has also shown a bad habit of holding on to the ball too long and taking sacks. There’s plenty of room for him to improve on his reads, but once the mental side catches up with what he offers physically, his upside will be taken to a new level. He could be in the Bucs draft plans as the team had him in for a Top 30 visit.

Hooker is one of the more interesting quarterback prospects in this year’s class. He’s a bit of a wild card for a variety of reasons. He was extremely successful at Tennessee, but his success coming in a “gimmicky” Josh Heupel system is a potential concern. Then again, he showed a mastery of that offense and was extremely efficient as a passer. A hard worker and excellent communicator, Hooker has the mentality needed to be a successful quarterback in the NFL. He’s also very careful with the ball, throwing only five interceptions over his two years with the Volunteers against 58 touchdowns.

Outside of the scheme questions, other issues raised with Hooker are his age and injury status. He is already 25 years old, having spent four years at Virginia Tech before transferring and starting two seasons at Tennessee. And just as he appeared to be gaining traction as a potential Heisman Trophy candidate last season, he tore his ACL in November. That meant no participation at the Senior Bowl and NFL Combine, and his recovery is likely to cost him some (or all) of his first offseason in the NFL. Still, despite the concerns, there’s reason to believe Hooker could be a high-risk, high-reward selection for someone. Like Levis, Hooker could be in the Bucs draft plans as he too came in on a Top 30 visit.

Haener earned MVP honors at the Senior Bowl earlier this offseason, capping off a solid week for him. He’s a strong competitor and does the little things right, reading the field effectively and showing a good feel for coverage. During his time at Fresno State, he protected the football pretty well, totaling 67 passing touchdowns to 17 interceptions. His most interceptions in a season came in 2021 when he threw nine, but those went along with a career-high 33 passing scores. He has a natural accuracy that serves him well, especially given the limitations in other aspects of his game.

Unfortunately for Haener, he lacks the ideal size and overall frame for an NFL quarterback. He doesn’t have much room to continue to fill out, so he’s potentially maxed out at 5-foot-11, 207 pounds. What also works against him is the lack of any particularly elite trait. His processing and anticipation are solid, but his physical tools appear average. His arm strength leaves a lot to be desired and combining that with him being undersized limits his ceiling at the next level.

O’Connell’s accuracy, processing and overall smarts made him a success at Purdue, as he finished near the top of almost every one of the program’s passing categories. He isn’t the most agile, nor is he all that speedy, but he has shown an ability to move up in the pocket well enough to extend plays when necessary. He reads the field well and delivers the ball over the top with impressive touch. His coaches have praised his maturity and leadership ability, and he comes from a walk-on background, which has adds an inherent sense of competitiveness to his profile.

As much as O’Connell offers in the way of accuracy, he doesn’t possess elite arm strength and has a lean frame that could give him problems holding up against NFL pass rushers. He did display a tendency to force throws too frequently, too, which led to some turnover problems. He finished with double-digit interceptions in both of his seasons as a full-time starter at Purdue and threw 24 interceptions over those two seasons. The 24-year-old has the makings of a reliable backup quarterback in the NFL.

After backing up Zach Wilson for two years in 2019 and 2020, Hall stepped in as a starter at BYU in 2021 and did so to the tune of 2,583 passing yards and 20 touchdowns to five interceptions. He followed that season with a 3,171-yard, 31-touchdown season in 2022. The Cougars used him well on RPOs and took advantage of his quick feet and impressive body control. There’s something to be said about his leadership ability too, as he seamlessly replaced Wilson when he was drafted and served as a captain over his final two seasons.

Hall has a smaller frame and does have a lengthy injury history, which could give some teams pause at the next level. He also showed some inconsistent accuracy over his couple of seasons as BYU’s starter, especially on throws down the field. And as much as he took care of the ball in the passing game (throwing just 11 career interceptions), he finished his career with 13 fumbles, which is a startling number. Hall is an older prospect, but he might have enough athleticism and smarts to carve out a role in a quarterback room somewhere.

It’s not hard to see what teams might like most about McKee, and that’s his physical profile. He’s an impressive 6-foot-6, 231 pounds, and that’s the type of frame that NFL coaches and strength staffs love to mold. His field vision is solid and he processes well, which complements the touch that he throws with. Coming from a school like Stanford, it stands to reason that he is incredibly intelligent. That translates to the football field, too, which will make him a good quarterback to have in any room.

While McKee’s physical stature is imposing, he’s not a plus athlete and showed nothing at Stanford that would indicate that he poses any kind of threat as a runner. He was one of the most-sacked quarterbacks in college football and has little to no escapability to his game. His touchdown-interception ratio also leaves a lot to be desired, given he threw for 15 touchdowns and seven interceptions in 2021 and totaled 13 touchdowns to eight interceptions last year. There’s a lot for McKee to overcome if he’s going to turn into anything at the NFL level.

Tune mixes some solid size with sneaky athleticism, and that combination made him a major success at Houston. He threw for 104 touchdowns to 41 interceptions while passing for 11,996 yards over a five-year career. He moves well in and out of the pocket and has pro-level accuracy, having completed 68.2% of his passes in 2021 and 67.3% of them in 2022. There’s some decent arm strength to work with here, plus he has sound mechanics. Tune also displayed some impressive rushing ability, too, especially in his final season with the Cougars. He ran for 546 yards and five touchdowns to go with his 4,074 passing yards and 40 passing scores.

Where Tune can improve is with his decision-making. He threw 10 interceptions in each of his final three seasons at Houston, showing some struggles with looking off coverage. There’s a “no risk it, no biscuit” element to the three-time team captain, which can be both a good and bad thing. More so than some of the other Day 2-Day 3 quarterbacks, the upside with Tune is intriguing. He has a natural passing ability and good enough athleticism, which will give him a chance to develop with time in the NFL. It wouldn’t be surprising to see the Bucs draft him on Day 3, as he came in on a Top 30 visit.

Bennett’s story at Georgia was something out of an underdog movie. A former walk-on, he later went the junior college route before coming back and eventually rising up the ranks to start for the Bulldogs. And when he got his chance, all he did was lead his team to back-to-back national championships. In 2021, he completed 64.5% of his passes for 2,862 yards and 29 touchdowns to seven interceptions. He won MVP honors in both the Orange Bowl and the College Football Playoff National Championship Game. Then, in 2022, he threw for 4,127 yards and 27 scores while adding 10 touchdowns on the ground. He once again won MVP in the national title game, closing his career with more confetti.

Unfortunately for Bennett, his story may not extend all that much into the NFL. He is undersized to begin with and doesn’t possess the elite traits needed to thrive as an NFL quarterback, plus he is already set to turn 26 during his rookie season in the league. There were questions about how much he wanted to keep playing football after he declined all-star invitations earlier this year, and his arrest for public intoxication back in January will be something he will have had to answer for when meeting with teams.

Thompson-Robinson possesses great speed, which helped him run for 1,827 yards and 28 touchdowns during his UCLA career. He has above-average arm strength, too, and wowed in 2022 with 3,169 passing yards and 27 scores. He shows a knack for knowing when to go from passer to runner, improvising well and creating something out of nothing. There are NFL traits to work with for Thompson-Robinson, but he definitely has room to develop at the next level.

The former Bruins quarterback, who started 48 games over the course of his career, is a little light and could stand to fill out his frame a little more. He had turnover issues at times during his college career, too, with decision-making problems leading to two seasons with double-digit interceptions. As a projected Day 3 pick, Thompson-Robinson could develop into a strong backup if he falls into the right situation.

As impressive as Bennett’s story was, Duggan’s is up there, too. He started 29 games for TCU from 2019-2021, but he then lost out on the starting quarterback job to begin 2022. He quickly reassumed his starting role, though, and it led to a historic season for the Horned Frogs. His 3,698 passing yards, 32 passing touchdowns and nine rushing scores led to Duggan becoming TCU’s first Heisman Trophy finalist since LaDanian Tomlinson in 2000. He led the program to the College Football Playoff and a thrilling semifinal win over Michigan before the Cinderella story came to an end at the hands of Georgia. Still, it was an impressive run for Duggan.

The problem for Duggan, though, is that he lacks elite NFL traits. He has inconsistent accuracy and doesn’t possess the best pocket presence, plus he needs to refine his field vision at the next level. There’s enough to like about his dual-threat ability and competitive nature for someone to take a seventh-round flier on him, but he’ll be a project with a limited ceiling for whichever team drafts him.

One of the less-heralded quarterback prospects in this year’s class, Bagent possesses a build that is suitable for the NFL level. He also has a quick release and a good arm, which helped him throw for 17,034 yards and 159 touchdowns to 48 interceptions as a four-year starter at Shepherd. Bagent has enough functional mobility to move around in the pocket and make plays, and playing under three different offensive coordinators over the course of his career gave him plenty of experience with different systems and terminology.

Of course, leaping from Division II Shepherd to the NFL is bound to be an adjustment for Bagent, and while his frame is projectable, he is far from a finished project or sure thing. He has some solid tools to work with, but he’ll need time in an NFL system before we can see if he’s capable of putting together a long career.

Cunningham broke Lamar Jackson’s Louisville record for total touchdowns, finishing his career with 120. He processes quickly and possesses great improvisational skills, which feeds into his abilities as a rushing threat. His 2021 seasons saw him run for 1,021 yards and 20 touchdowns to pair with 2,941 passing yards and 19 passing scores. For his career, he threw for 70 touchdowns and ran for 50, proving to be an impressive dual-threat for a Cardinals program that knows a thing or two about such signal-callers.

At the NFL level, Cunningham may be able to latch on with a team that can play to his strengths as a creator. He would excel in a scheme that utilizes QB boots and waggles, especially if he makes strides with his mechanics. His lanky build may be a limiting factor to his potential, though, and he will already turn 25 years old during his rookie season. Likely an undrafted free agent, Cunningham is likely to be someone signed to fill a quarterback room rather than define it.

Is it possible that the Bucs draft Kentucky’s Will Levis if he falls to Tampa Bay at No. 19? Don’t rule it out. But there are four quarterback-needy teams drafting ahead of the Bucs, so it’s unlikely he’s still on the board. With more pressing needs elsewhere, and the team truly wanting to give former second-round pick Kyle Trask a legitimate shot to compete for the starting job, it’s more likely the Bucs draft a quarterback on Day 3. But Tennessee’s Hendon Hooker might be tempting. He’s coming off an ACL injury and may not be ready for camp, so it could be a two-man race between Mayfield and Trask. But Hooker could develop behind the scenes and be ready to compete in 2024 with a year in Dave Canales’ system. Hooker, a Top 30 visitor to Tampa Bay, could be an option in the first or second round.

If the Bucs draft a quarterback this year, it’s likely going to be on Day 3. Houston’s Clayton Tune, a former teammate of Bucs defensive tackle Logan Hall, last year’s second-round pick, came in for a Top 30 visit and could be the target. He has a nice blend of size, athleticism, moxie and arm strength to be a nice developmental quarterback in Tampa Bay. Tune led the Cougars to several fourth quarter, come-from-behind wins in his four years as a starter. The three-time team captain might end being a steal in this draft and he seems to have the right tools to succeed in Dave Canales’ offense. The Bucs don’t have a fourth-round pick, but if Tune lasts to the fifth round he would likely garner consideration. Or if he’s high on the Bucs draft board, the team could trade up into the fourth round to get him.