After drawing with Fr O'Neill's and Douglas in recent weeks along with a defeat to Sarsfields, Charleville's senior hurlers registered their first win in the Red FM County Division 1 HL when a strong second half showing saw them account for Kanturk at Charleville on Sunday last. Played in windy conditions the opening stages saw both teams quick to settle with the lead changing hands on a number of occasions.

After 20 minutes the teams were level for the fourth occasions at 0-5 apiece. Charleville edged in front soon after through Garrett Gleeson before they struck for the games opening goal in the 23rd minute when a delivery by Robert Carroll was flicked to the net by Tim Hawe that moved them 1-6 to 0-5 clear. In their next attack good work by Garrett Gleeson resulted in Andrew Cagney splitting the posts that stretched their advantage to five points.

The remainder of the half saw Kanturk wind assisted finish well with Oisin O'Connor, Darren Browne, Lorcan McLoughlan, Ian Walsh, Rory Sheahan, Alan Walsh, Cian Clernon and Chris Mullane to the fore. The Duhallow side picked off three points before the half time whistle courtesy of Cian Clernon, Lorcan McLoughlan and Rory Sheahan to close the margin to 1-8 to 0-9 at the interval.

For the second half Charleville introduced substitute Darragh Fitzgibbon who made an immediate impact along with Darren Butler, Jack Meade, Kieran Cagney, Danny O'Flynn, Robert Carroll, Jack O'Callaghan, Jack Doyle, Tim Hawe, Andrew Cagney and Garrett Gleeson. There was an early exchange of points by Darren Browne, Jack O'Callaghan, Robert Carroll and Cian Clernon by the 36th minute 1-10 to 0-11.

Further pressure by the Rathluirc side saw Darragh Fitzgibbon and Conor Buckley have two points in as many minutes before a second goal by Andrew Cagney in the 41st minute put them firmly in the driving seat when surging 2-12 to 0-11 in front. Rory Sheahan kept Kanturk in touch with two frees but these scores were cancelled out at the otherend through the hardworking Tim Hawe 2-14 to 0-13.

The last quarter saw Charleville with the aid of the wind finish in a flurry. DJ Collins (2), Darragh Fitzgibbon (2), Jack Meade, Jack O'Callaghan and Andrew Cagney reeled off points while Kanturk picked off three points by Rory Sheahan, Darren Browne and Alan Walsh but it was not enough with Charleville running out convincing winners.

CHARLEVILLE: C Collins, D Butler, J Meade 0-1f, J Kilcommons, K Cagney, D O'Flynn, F Cagney, J O'Callaghan 0-2, R Carroll 0-2, G Kelleher 0-1, A Cagney 1-2, J Doyle 0-3 (2f), T Hawe 1-3, C Buckley 0-1, G Gleeson 0-1. Subs: D Fitzgibbon 0-3 for G Kelleher, B O'Connell for F Cagney, S Gleeson for R Carroll, J O'Brien for J Doyle, D Lee for D Butler, D. J Collins 0-2 for G Gleeson,.

KANTURK: G Bucinskas, J McLoughlan, J Browne, O O'Connor, E Hayes, D Browne 0-2, C Sheahan, L McLoughlan 0-2 (1f), M Healy, R Sheahan 0-4f, I Walsh 0-2, L O'Keeffe, C Mullane, C Clernon 0-2, Alan Walsh 0-4. Subs: G Kenehan for L O'Keeffe, B Healy for E Hayes.