After a first trip planned at the end of March, but canceled due to pneumonia, Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva was due to arrive in China on Wednesday, April 12, for a three-day official visit, during which he is expected to meet with several political leaders, including President Xi Jinping on Friday.

The speed with which the two sides were able to set a new date speaks volumes of the importance that both Beijing and Brasilia attach to the visit. Brazil is an important trading partner for China. Brazilian exports to China, mainly agricultural products and minerals, amount to nearly $90 billion (€82 billion), more than three times France's exports (€24 billion). Almost a third of Brazilian exports go to China. China is even Brazil's leading trading partner, far ahead of the United States (11% of Brazilian exports) and its neighbor Argentina (4%).

One of the challenges of this trip is to further develop these relations, and also to turn the page on the Bolsonaro era and to bring about a political rapprochement between Brazil and China, two countries that are very critical of Washington. Lula, who was president of Brazil from 2003 to 2010, visited China in 2004 and again in 2009.

The West will be closely monitoring the two countries' statements on Ukraine. President Lula has already stated publicly that he wants to discuss with Xi China's role in resolving the conflict. The Brazilian president told reporters on April 6 that he would suggest to his counterpart that he take a leading role in a group of countries urging Russia and Ukraine to seek a diplomatic solution to the war. Lula is confident that he will succeed. "I am confident that when you ask me the question [about the war] after I return from China, I will announce the creation of a group that will discuss peace."

On a personal level, as he had already told President Joe Biden during his visit to the US in February (and then reminded French President Emmanuel Macron and German Chancellor Olaf Scholz), the Brazilian still refuses to send munitions to Ukraine "in the name of peace." Keen to adopt a balanced position, he also said he thought that "Putin cannot continue to occupy Ukraine," and suggested to the Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelensky, that he give up Crimea because he "cannot have it all."

The Chinese daily Global Times seemed enthusiastic: "The world will witness the power of peace and development during Lula's visit," it said in an editorial published on Wednesday morning. And if this project does not succeed, the daily has already found the culprit: Washington. "Such unity among developing countries is not what the United States wants to see, according to analysts who highlight the need to remain vigilant against American attempts to sow discord." But, despite appearances, China remains cautious. "President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen and President Emmanuel Macron did indicate last week to Xi that the war in Ukraine was an existential issue for Europe," said a European diplomat. In the run-up to Lula's visit, neither The People's Daily (in Chinese) nor the China Daily (in English) mentioned the Ukraine issue.

You have 51.2% of this article left to read. The rest is for subscribers only.