The Government is planning to make it easier for developers to get resource consents for renewable energy projects such as new and upgraded solar and wind farms.

Environment Minister David Parker said the country needed to rapidly expand its renewable energy infrastructure to reduce emissions and meet its climate change goals, and the existing rules could not support the rate of development that was needed.

Options proposed by the Government include creating a new mechanism to allow renewable energy projects in areas that have been defined as having significant environmental value, and making it easier to get consent for projects even if there are negative local effects.

When weighing up the impact of renewable energy projects on communities, decision-makers would need to have regard for the fact that changes could have “wider benefits to the wellbeing of people and communities, including future generations”.

READ MORE:

* What happens if we pull the plug on Lake Onslow?

* Luxon promises to 'turbocharge' renewable energy, National 'copying our homework', says James Shaw

* 84% of NZ electricity is renewable, but progress slow on some new wind farms

New national standards would be created to improve the consistency of consenting decisions and could make it easier for generators to upgrade their existing power plants, for example by making it simpler to replace wind turbines with larger ones.

“So long as the wind farm is no more than 10% bigger then it's [going to have] a pretty easy route to be re-consented,” Parker said.

The companies behind a proposal to build a wind farm offshore from Raglan supplied this video, which outlines their vision.

The rule changes would also make it easier to get consent for transmission network upgrades that can be needed to connect new renewable power plants.

Parker said the package was designed to ensure the national significance of renewable electricity was given more weight in decisions made under the Resource Management Act.

The National Party last month proposed cutting red tape to “turbocharge” the development of renewable energy.

National leader Christopher Luxon said it would ensure consents for new renewable power projects were issued within a year, with the consents lasting for 35 years.

He suggested that if consents weren’t processed in that time, they could be automatically approved.

David Parker acknowledged “market issues” could also be holding back investment in renewables.

National would scrap the need for consents to upgrade existing renewable infrastructure and most new infrastructure, he said.

Electricity generators have frequently called for the consenting process to be relaxed, but have also been accused of sitting on resource consents for wind farms in some cases for more than a decade, without developing them.

The Government is considering whether a “use it or lose it regime” should be introduced for consents to discourage that practice.

National Party energy spokesperson Stuart Smith also did not rule out it considering such a rule.

Parker said New Zealand needed to increase its renewable generating capacity by between 50% and 70% by 2035, and by 170% by 2050.

That translated to about 400 to 500 megawatts per annum, he said.

Parker said its proposed changes would mostly facilitate the development of onshore wind and solar farms and would not impact the consenting process for the Lake Onslow pump hydro scheme if that went ahead, or offshore wind farms.

“Geothermal hasn't been that difficult to consent anyway, to be honest, and we're not envisaging a lot more hydro.”

He acknowledged that making consents easier to get was only “part of the answer” to encouraging sufficient investment in generation and that there might be “some market issues” that were also holding back investment.

The price of electricity was higher than the long-run cost of generating electricity from new power plants, he noted, but he suggested that making it easier for new entrants to get new plants approved should help.

The consenting proposals will be open for consultation until June 1.