THIS CONTENT IS RESERVED FOR SUBSCRIBERS ONLY Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.  Unlimited online access to articles from across Canada with one account Get exclusive access to the Edmonton Journal ePaper, an electronic replica of the print edition that you can share, download and comment on Enjoy insights and behind-the-scenes analysis from our award-winning journalists Support local journalists and the next generation of journalists      Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.  Unlimited online access to articles from across Canada with one account Get exclusive access to the Edmonton Journal ePaper, an electronic replica of the print edition that you can share, download and comment on Enjoy insights and behind-the-scenes analysis from our award-winning journalists Support local journalists and the next generation of journalists      Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience.  Access articles from across Canada with one account Share your thoughts and join the conversation in the comments  Get email updates from your favourite authors

We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or

tap here to see other videos from our team.   The Kings will win in seven games, predicts Adam Proteau of the Hockey News: “The Oilers have an enormous amount of pressure to improve upon last season’s run to the Western Conference final… There’s just something about the Kings that makes us think they can upset Edmonton. It’s one of two hunch picks in this file, but it’s a strong hunch… The Kings are looking for vengeance after the Oilers eliminated them in last season’s first round. L. A. nearly won that series, taking it to seven games before Edmonton won Game 7. The margin for error was razor-thin, and we see the same margin for error in this new matchup. The Kings were 2-2-0 against the Oilers in the regular season, and that’s a harbinger of how close it will be. But this time, we think the Kings will prevail.”

Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Edmonton Journal, a division of Postmedia Network Inc.         There was an error, please provide a valid email address.        By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails or any newsletter. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300    Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Edmonton Journal Headline News will soon be in your inbox.   We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again

The view of the Hockey News is not shared by many others. Over at the Moneypuck website, the Oilers are the favorite to win the Cup, given a 13.3 per cent chance, ahead of Colorado, 12.4 per cent, and Boston, 12.1 per cent.  At the Athletic, writers Dom Luszczyszyn, Shayna Goldman and Sean Gentille have the Oilers over the Kings: “Edmonton should win this one, but if last year’s matchup was any indication, the Oilers will have to earn every inch of ice to get there.”  They give Edmonton a 69 per cent chance of winning, with the Kings at 31 per cent. “The Oilers are the rightful favorite in this series. Their best players are somehow better than ever before, and the rest of the roster is more balanced and supported. But Edmonton is not the only team that improved this year. The Kings, who almost disrupted McDavid and the Oilers last spring, are stronger than the team that lost in seven games last time. They’ve progressed from where they started the regular season, too. That makes for a really interesting series that has some upset potential.”

At the Daily Faceoff, writer Mike Gould predicts Edmonton in four. “This year’s Oilers almost feel like a team of destiny. What exactly that destiny is remains to be seen. Perhaps they’ll go out in a fiery blaze like the 2019 Tampa Bay Lightning. But for our purposes, we’ll say they continue their dominance from the stretch drive into their first-round series. Skinner will stand on his head and McDavid will record 10 points on the power play as the Oilers win Games 1, 2, 3, and 4.”  At DraftKings, a betting site, writer Benjamin Zweiman also goes with the favoured Oilers: “The Oilers are heavy favorites over the Kings in the 2-3 matchup out of the Pacific Division. While the Oilers only finished five points head of L. A. in the regular season, Edmonton is the hottest hockey team in the League entering the postseason. The Oilers have won nine straight games and 14 of their past 15 contests. Connor McDavid is just going to be too much for the Kings to handle… He’s elevating the entire team and the Oilers have made moves to shore up the defense by adding Mattias Ekholm… There isn’t much value betting this line. The Oilers should take care of the Kings and advance pretty easily. It would be shocking to see a team this hot with the best player in the world go out early.”

The Oilers of the first half of the NHL season would have lost to the Kings. It might not have been close. That team has outstanding attacking from Connor McDavid, Leon Draisaitl, Ryan Nugent-Hopkins and Zach Hyman, especially on the power play, but it’s penalty killing was bad-to-atrocious, and it gave up to many 5-alarm chances, shots that go in about one third of the time.  In the first 41 games of the year, Edmonton gave up 281 5-alarm shots, 6.9 per game.  In the second 41 games, that dropped to 227 5-alarm shots, just 5.5 per game.  Five-alarm shots are a subset of Grade A shots, which go in about 25 per cent of the time. In the second half, the Oilers had a Grade A shot differential of 4.6 per game. Little wonder the Oilers out-scored the opposition 4.4 to 2.9 goals per game on average in the final 41 games and earned 64 points, a 0.78 points percentage.

In the first half, Edmonton earned just 45 points, a mediocre 0.55 points percentage on 3.5 goals for and 3.3 goals against per game.    Almost every Oilers player improved in some way from the first to the second half.  We measure this by looking at their two-way play at even strength. Almost every single player saw an improvement when it came to creating Grade A shots or defending against them or both.  The most improved players from the first to the second half were, in order, Devin Shore, Klim Kostin, Derek Ryan, Ryan McLeod, Warren Foegele, Brett Kulak and Ryan Nugent-Hopkins, all of them with massive and significant improvements in their two-way performance. But also improved were Connor McDavid, Leon Draisaitl, Dylan Holloway, Kailer Yamamoto, Evan Bouchard and Philip Broberg.

The only players who had significant drops from the first half to the second half were Zach Hyman and Evander Kane, who both had to fight through injuries in the second half.    On top of this improved play at even strength, the Edmonton penalty kill also improved dramatically once Vincent Desharnias and Mattis Ekholm shored up the back-end.  Desharnais and especially Ekholm were also strong players at even strength, while goalie Stuart Skinner picked up his game down the stretch and provided the team with calm and confident net-minding against some tough teams.  In the end, it’s possible, of course, that the Kings could beat the Oilers. Puck luck and injuries can play a huge factor in any series, not to mention goaltending, hot or cold. But if this series were to be played eight times, my own bet is the Oilers would win eight of ten.  I’ll predict Oilers in five. You?

The unpopular truth about Edmonton Oilers No. 1 d-man Darnell Nurse                 Danielle Smith stands by refusal to allow followup questions from journalists                Death of 53-year-old man is Edmonton's first motorcycle fatality of 2023, police say

This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.