On April 18, 2023, the German government published an updated document detailing the list of military equipment provided to Ukraine. This release confirmed that the first German Patriot air defense missile system has been successfully delivered to Ukraine.

On January 5, 2023, a joint statement was released by the United States and Germany announcing that Germany will supply Ukraine with armored personnel carriers and a Patriot missile battery.

Citing information from the German Federal Foreign Office, Since the outbreak of the war, the German Government has made available more than 14.2 billion euros in bilateral support for Ukraine; this aid includes a substantial winter assistance program, helping those who have fled Ukraine, and assisting efforts to investigate war crimes as well as humanitarian mine clearance operations.

Germany is therefore supporting Ukraine by supplying arms and equipment from its German army (Bundeswehr) military inventory, as well as from defense industry deliveries that are paid for with funds from the German Government’s budget.

Germany is also the largest contributor to the refinancing fund of the European Peace Facility (EPF), which so far has enabled the provision of 3.1 billion euros from across Europe; these funds are to be made available between 2022 and 2026, to support the delivery of military equipment from EU.

According to our source, the German armed forces have a total of 30 launcher units of the Patriot PAC-3 air defense missile system.

The M902 Patriot PAC-3 is a surface-to-air missile system developed by the United States to defend against incoming ballistic missiles, cruise missiles, and aircraft. It is an upgraded version of the Patriot missile system, with a focus on enhanced capabilities to intercept ballistic missiles.

The PAC-3 missile is designed to intercept incoming targets in the terminal phase of flight, meaning it is intended to destroy the target closer to its intended impact point. This is different from earlier versions of the Patriot missile, which were designed to intercept targets in the mid-course phase of flight.

The PAC-3 missile has a range of approximately 20 km (12.4 miles) and is capable of reaching speeds of up to Mach 5. It uses a hit-to-kill interceptor, which means that it destroys its target by colliding with it.

The M902 Patriot PAC-3 system consists of a launcher, a control station, and up to 16 missiles. The launcher can be transported by truck, trailer, or rail and can be operated by a crew of three.

Click here: to donate by Credit Card

Or here: to donate by PayPal

Or by mail to: Free Republic, LLC - PO Box 9771 - Fresno, CA 93794

Thank you very much and God bless you.

We give them to Germany for their defense and they give it to the Ukies.....Clever....

Disclaimer:

Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual

posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its

management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the

exemption for fair use of copyrighted works.