a blog by Jack Limpert, Editor of The Washingtonian for more than 40 years.

Liz Cheney’s New Book Is Called “0ath and Honor”—a Call to Action and Urgent Warning

From a story on axios.com by Mike Allen headlined “Liz Cheney’s book plans”:

Former Rep. Liz Cheney (R-Wyo.) — vice chair, and key driving force of the House’s Jan. 6 committee — will be out Nov. 14 with “Oath and Honor,” which publisher Little, Brown calls a memoir, a call to action and “urgent warning.”

Why it matters: Cheney, daughter of the former vice president, became a household name during Jan. 6 hearings last summer — and wants to be sure the issues of principle/duty/obligation stay in the national debate.

“The last two years have shown us once again that our constitutional republic is not self-sustaining,” Cheney, who calls herself a “constitutional conservative,” said.

“It survives only because of the courage and honor of individual Americans. When history looks back on this time, each elected official will have to answer the questions: Did we do our duty? Were we faithful to our oath of office?”

Cheney’s book “will take readers inside the rooms where congressional leaders grappled with the threat posed by Trump’s efforts to overturn the election,” the announcement says. “She will detail lessons learned — stories of leadership, of cowardice, and of courage.”

“Cheney will explain why she decided to stand almost alone against her party; why she risked her career, her seat, and her position in leadership to do what she knew was right.”

What’s next: Cheney, often mentioned as a future national candidate, in March was named a professor of practice at the University of Virginia Center for Politics — running through the end of the 2023 fall semester, with an option to renew.

Liz Cheney’s New Book Is Called “0ath and Honor”—a Call to Action and Urgent Warning

When a Reporter Leaves His Tape Recorder Running After a Meeting of County Officials Ends

A Retired ER Doctor Finds New Ways to Use Her Skills