Here are some news stories that might be of interest. Most articles will be more or less summarized in the headline. You can skim the headlines and summaries, and click the links if they are of interest. Keep in mind, many of these reports are products of an unreliable news media, so although they will be what people are hearing and talking about, there is no guarantee any one of them is necessarily correct, and we have had cases of outright lies make it onto these pages.

We maintain a light, news-story-only, very mobile-friendly  version of this site, with no comments, at https://www.rkpolitics.com

If you have clicked on the page for this News Brief, this is a link that will take you directly to the comments section.

“Make sure those you follow talk about the surveillance, because everyone who is in the game knows. Make them either damage the machine by saying it, or reveal they are part of it by staying silent. Demanding our side talk about the surveillance is really the closest to a Xanatos gambit our side has.”

Buying on Amazon or Ebay? Go here with a trackable browser, click the Amazon or eBay link, and the commission generated there will support our advertiser, who helps support this site with their ads.

DFT – China Protests Sanctioning Of Its Companies For Russia Trade

Rep. Darin LaHood (R-IL) made the startling revelation that he believed the FBI surveilled him through Section 702 without “limiters,” as revealed by a Justice Department (DOJ) and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI) routine audit. “I think that the report’s characterization of this FBI analyst’s action as a mere misunderstanding of the querying procedures is indicative of the culture that the FBI has come to expect and tolerate. It is also indicative of the continued failure to appreciate how the misuse of this authority is seen on Capitol Hill. And I want to make clear, the FBI’s inappropriate querying of a duly-elected member of Congress is egregious and a violation that not only degrades the trust in FISA but is viewed as a threat to the separation of powers.”

Another reason why the CIA needed a quickie regime-change in the USA in 1963 : CIA’s James Angleton running a covert program to supply Israel with nuclear weapons behind President Kennedy’s back. I wrote before, I remember reading Angleton was the renown spy-hunter, who was so hyper-paranoid, so dedicated to outing spies and moles in the CIA, such a patriot, that he destroyed the careers of a bunch of innocents patriots at CIA due to being overzealous. But it was all his commitment to America, you see. I immediately assumed he was a traitor when I read that.  If so, look at his history – he, Mr Paranoid, never trust anyone, just happened to choose notorious traitor Kim Philby as his only best friend, and then they spend all their free time at some dive, with Angleton, “unwittingly” spilling all the most sensitive secrets to him, so they could be passed to our enemies. Then he turns around and goes back to work, where he sets about purging patriots. Just like it is always the mobster who gets the angriest and most violent at even the thought of an informant, who is spilling everything to the feds on the side, it is always the spy who claims to be most on your side, and who claims to hate the enemy the most, who is the traitor. Then again, these days, look at all these spies, who just love, love, love our democracy.

FBI behind plot to blow up Governor Ralph Northam — Used elderly Vietnam veteran in diabolical plot to bomb VA Gov. It was a Whitmer like situation, but apparently did not pan out for the FBI.

CIA would not give FBI intelligence on 9/11 hijackers. I do not believe any intelligence agencies in the United states are ever really at odds. The “at odds” ploy is similar to the meme of nations. If you think your government has enemies, or this agency is enemies with that agency, you will assume if anything untoward was going on it would be leaked. But if FBI was really at odds with CIA, somebody would leak the domestic intelligence operation targeting kids in schools, and they would destroy their enemy once and for all. That it doesn’t happen means they are all on the same page, even across borders.

Former CIA officer Larry Johnson, who did presidential daily briefings during the George H. W. Bush administration, told “Judging Freedom” host Andrew Napolitano that he thinks the latest leak of Ukraine War documents is an inside job…. About the source, he said: “I’d put it above the CIA. This is elements connected to the Director of National Intelligence… “The information was leaked for [a purpose], to prepare the U.S. public for the crash landing that’s going to take place with respect to U.S. foreign policy,” he said… This information was leaked about Israel. Part of that comes from a FISA, it’s got a FISA classification on it, which does necessarily mean this is Department of Justice/FBI territory. So again, there’s no way that some National Guardsman doing [temporary duty] at Fort Bragg would have access to that.

CIA Officer Larry Johnson cotes discrepancies with the leaking document story – He says, a kid that age was never allowed in the SCIFS he or his fellow intel worked in, an Air Force expert said the kid should never have been in there without a commander present to watch him, there would never have been CIA reports in the Air Force SCIF, and the media is saying there are 300 pages leaked but nobody has seen more than 18. You wonder if the kid even was in that Discord server, or if he ever heard of any of this. It could have all been made up framing him for some purpose.

If he did leak it though, this is exactly how intel operates. They watch everyone. They would see this kid’s first violation on Discord to somebody. Others who never violated, or who were ID’d as non-violators would simply be ignored as this kid was focused on. They would send their people in to the Discord provoke him further. “You don’t know what you are talking about!” “You’re lying!” “You have no proof!” Shrinks would advise on how best to threaten his ego, threaten his status in the group. They would reward him psychologically with things a shrink would come up with, after each violation, praising his ego, making him feel important, making him feel like he was honoring his loyalty to his friends, or helping others, and letting him humiliate his opponent. Whatever worked. Then they just have to give him access to what they want out there, let it fall across his radar. And he is there, thinking nobody has any idea what he is doing, when in reality he is under 24/7 panopticon coverage, most of is friends are them, and he is moving in response to their pushes. It is very clever, because nobody except those who have seen the surveillance first hand can grasp the sheer magnitude of the operation all of us face, or that this is not only possible, but likely. Obviously the ex-CIA who used to do it, get it.

Kash Patel says he does not believe “for a single second, this guy — a 21-year-old Air National Guardsman — ran this operation alone.”

Lt. Col. Vindman admitted leaking documents meant to help Dems impeach Trump—Never served time, while 21-yr-old Jack Teixeira was arrested for the same crime.

Trump lawyers granted deposition of rape accuser amid claims of ties to Democrat funding, questionable credibility.

I do not remember hearing that a few years back, Cernovich was involved in the Epstein case: “An alleged Jeffrey Epstein victim has said that right-wing personality Michael Cernovich’s request to compel her to pay costs in a Second Circuit appeal is an attempt by Cernovich and Harvard Law School professor Alan Dershowitz to intimidate her, prompting Cernovich to apologize and distance himself from the professor.” Who would even think Dershowitz would know Cernovich? But it turns out Cernovich was able to get Dershowitz to sit for a documentary interview, which is no small feat, and something I am quite sure I would never be able to get. He is more plugged in to whatever is going on than he lets on, IMO. Which is interesting in that he supposedly built his initial audience online as a health blogger, who segued into juicing, then did the self-improvement/pickup/Gorilla mindset thing, then on into political bantering. I do not know what any of that means, just seems an odd path if he was plugged in at the beginning, which I always assumed from his shady, maybe mil-intel history. I always find it fascinating, where these people come from, and (if we viewed ourselves as freedom-loving Americans) what they view themselves as belonging to, that makes a Stasi-shadow-dictatorship-panopticon appear to them so great and worthy of sacrifice, so long as they get to do the dictatoring.

The IMF has just unveiled a new global currency known as the “Universal Monetary Unit” that is supposed to revolutionize the world economy.

Foreign nationals using Biden’s migrant mobile app have 99% chance of being released into the U. S.

I was looking at this meme on 4Chan, and realizing I am entirely an observer to two groups of Feds wrecking and destroying on both sides. If the first group had not killed all those kids, but rather burned that building down around a bunch of FBI informers pretending to be militia, it would have been entirely Federal Agents against Federal agents, all killing each other to affect the citizen sheep watching. Even this meme has that boomer feel of a Fed-made meme dropped on 4Chan to further inflame everyone. Just weird how the propaganda cannot even begin to touch me any more:

Flashback to 2017, Dick Yuengling CEO of Yuengling Beer, tells everybody to go fuck themselves, endorses Trump, and then steams through the boycott not giving a shit. If you are shifting from Bud, which you should, Yuengling sounds like our guy, making  our beer.

Americans are drinking less beer after Bud Light, among others, raised their prices. This predated the Tranny fiasco, so they will be really hurting.

Advertising expert ranks Bud Light’s handling of Dylan Mulvaney fiasco among the worst brand gaffes in HISTORY and slams ‘cowardly’ Anheuser-Busch’s ‘convoluted’ statement after weeks of silence.

GOP quietly backs off attacking Bud Light—Its own major donor. Some have said they contribute to Republicans, so we should leave them alone, but that makes it worse. They were supposed to be on our side, and that CIA infiltrator running it took it over to use it to leverage that against us, and pressure us from our side, so we would feel like even our allies were turning on us, and we were even more isolated. Traitors before enemies in this war. And even if it was an accident, make an example, so every other company discriminates against and fires the woke employees in its ranks to protect themselves. At this point I would not want to buy from any company employing CIA, either.

Along those lines, Alex Jones and Tim Pool hanging out with a tranny they promote:

That is a very profound disgust-eliciting stimulus. As I travel the Chans, where people (obviously not us) are posting tons of images and posts about trannies, it struck me, they are foisting that disgust on people for some reason. I cannot quite figure how it would change the nation’s psychology, especially the psychology of men, but I have to think adding twenty or thirty, or in the case of someone traversing Q’s board or 4Chan, a few hundred repetitions in a day of extreme disgust of that degree, would alter brain function. Whether it is designed to desensitize amygdalae (which if you can desensitize to the image above, might affect other aspects of psychology, like risk-taking, sex-drive, anger, fear, etc), or whether they are provoking some individuals to have enough and begin the process of trying to violently cleanse society so they do not encounter such amygdala-triggering disgust stimuli going forward, I do not know. But it feels like something the big brains are doing purposely, for some reason.

The United Nations issued this report calling on member nations to decriminalize sex between adults and minors. Should adults be allowed to convince kids to perform sex acts with them? The UN says yes.

Former Planned Parenthood director commits suicide after Police raid his home in child porn case.

Former CDC Director Robert Redfield’s biggest fear for a future pandemic is a genetically manipulated bird flu, given that NIH-funded scientists in 2012 published instructions for making such a pathogen cross the “species barrier” to humans, a highly unlikely result from viral evolution. “I didn’t think we needed to give terrorists a recipe” for modifying a bird flu to kill 5%-50% of people it infects, Dr. Redfield told “Just the News, No Noise,” recalling his argument to then-National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases Director Anthony Fauci — his future antagonist on COVID origins and gain-of-function research — against publishing the research. “I think it’s a miracle that no one’s used that yet,” Redfield said.

Mark Sheehan, guitarist with Irish rock band The Script passes away aged 46.

Former Illinois news anchor, 42, dies after sudden illness on vacation with her ‘beautiful family.’

First victim loses life as largest fungal infection in US history breaks out in Michigan’s Upper Peninsula.

Hundreds of teenagers flooded into Downtown Chicago on Saturday night, smashing car windows, trying to get into Millennium Park, and prompting a major police response.

Furious viewers complain en masse about new UK TV show with adult men stripping naked for kids.

South Korea’s Supreme Court has ordered Google to disclose any personal data it has collected on South Korean citizens and shared with third parties, including US intelligence agencies.

U. S. military would need conscription to fight China – Could not achieve victory using current all-volunteer force.

U. S. ‘Smart Bombs’ fail in Ukraine due to Russian jamming.

Russia says Wagner fighters seize two more parts of Bakhmut.

Former NATO troops see ‘disarray’ in Ukrainian military.

Ecuador has authorized the carrying and use of guns by civilians, President Guillermo Lasso said in a televised broadcast, citing rising crime and insecurity in the Andean country.

Former President Donald Trump holds a substantial lead in the race for the 2024 Republican presidential nomination, holding almost twice the support as his closest rival, DeSantis.

FOX 56/Emerson poll: 46% of Ky. Republicans ‘more likely’ to support Trump for president since indictment.

Donald Trump pledges tax credit for teachers who train to be armed. Should be for all citizens who have committed no crime and carry concealed.

Spread r/K Theory, because NPCs always have been out there