Interior Design Masters viewers were left outraged after a contestant missed out on a place in the final last night - with many saying he was 'robbed'.

In the semi-final of the BBC show, the three designers were tasked with transforming a hair salon in Bristol, each of which had it's own identity, for £3,000 in two days.

But while two of the contestants were given more neutral spaces to transform, contestant Tom Power was asked to modernize an edgy industrial salon which was split across two floors.

However the judges Michelle Ogundehin and Mary Portas were critical of his 'masculine' and 'dystopian' mural and said he had missed an opportunity to 'bring the garden in' - before he was eliminated.

Many viewers were stunned when he was eliminated from the programme, with one writing: 'Tom really took that graciously. I would be absolutely livid. He should be in the final.'

Another added: 'What in the world! Sorry but Tom was robbed, he should be in the final with Jack.

'This woman needs her head checked and then again, she's had a thing against Tom for weeks!'

Another commented: 'Tom is the only one I'd let anywhere near my house! Love his style.'

One wrote: 'Tom is a wonderful designer and a really lovely man. His brief was more difficult than the other two and he nailed it. He should be in the final.'

Another added: 'It's a travesty! Tom was robbed.'

'FUMING. Tom is the only one who considered lighting in his design, and the only one who actually listened to his client brief,' another wrote.

'Monika just cracked on with her own agenda as usual?? And threw multiple strops?? How on earth she is in the final, I have no idea.'

At the start of the programme, Tom met with his clients, owner Doug and manager Neil, who worked at Hobbs, an edgy industrial salon split across two floors.

They revealed that Doug had designed the salon himself, with the owner confessing: 'It's industrial, different textures - I love that.'

The two men asked for a new reception desk for the salon, as well as 'more lighting' in the space.

Doug said: 'We're quite keen to keep a lot of the exposed brick.'

Meanwhile Tom admitted he felt concerned about how much he could transform the space while keeping within the strict brief, calling it 'tricky.'

Walking into the salon, Tom confessed he was 'freaking out', saying: 'This is 100 per cent the biggest challenge I've had to date. This space has such a big personality.

'It's two massive spaces which aren't speaking to each other and need to.'

He revealed he wanted to try to break up the industrial spaces with sofa fabrics and curved edges.

He reshaped the reception desk and inserted new lighting, as well as upholstering one of the walls in a green fabric.

Meanwhile he tried to create adhesion by using the same fabric as a drape downstairs.

He said: 'I'm challenging my nervous energy into doing rather than thinking.'

On day two, Tom painted over the mural on the stairs and instead created a new abstract piece onto the wall.

He explained: 'Today the nerves are quietening, the elements I'm introducing aren't fighting against the space, they're working with what's already there.'

With the end in reach, Tom added some gold onto the reception desk, saying: 'It's out of my hands now!

'This is the career I want, I don't want to jinx it but I think I deserve to be in the final.'

The judges Michelle and Mary arrived at the salon, saying Tom was given a 'very strong space.'

They praised how he modernised the reception desk and the lighting, but Mary said: 'It feels very masculine and rough.'

Meanwhile they also said they were struggling with the mural, while Mary said he had 'missed a trick' on bringing the garden into the salon.

However Tom defended his decisions to the judges, saying: 'I feel the choices I made elevated what was already there. What it had to have was softness from the get-go.

Speaking on the mural, he said: 'I knew I wanted to carry on the rustic vibe.'

Mary told him: 'I think I absolutely would have bought that garden in in some way.'

And at the end of the programme, the judges decided that Tom would be the contestant who wouldn't make it through to the final.

He said: 'I am really proud of the journey I've been on. I'm really proud of the spaces I've produced. Take care.

'I feel I have put my passion for design  on the line every week, and I can only be proud of that. And that shows who I am and what I have to offer.'