Arsenal boss Mikel Arteta admitted his side “lost purpose” as they failed to beat West Ham United away from home, with the title-race pressure ramping up.

Arsenal headed to the London Stadium with a six-point lead over second-placed Manchester City. That could have been larger had they not suffered jitters at Anfield last week, in a game which saw them draw 2-2 with Liverpool.

For much of the season, the Gunners have been the side to beat. The 23 games they’ve won is the most of any side, one more than City. Now the campaign is getting to crunch time, it looks as if there might be doubt creeping in, though.

That wasn’t evident in the first half, as Gabriel Jesus scored his fourth goal in three games in the seventh minute – regularly showing his impact now he’s back from injury. That was followed up by a Martin Odegaard strike three minutes later.

West Ham pulled one back from the penalty spot in the 33rd minute, heading into half time 2-1 down. The Hammers scored their second less than 10 minutes after half-time, Jarrod Bowen following up Said Benrahma’s first.

Arsenal had a chance to go back up not long after, though Bukayo Saka’s penalty flew past the left-hand post. West Ham were able to shut the Gunners out for the rest of the game, as things finished at 2-2.

Speaking to Sky Sports following the game, Arsenal boss Arteta admitted his side lost their way at the wrong time.

“Very disappointing. The way we started was superb again, we were in total control, then we lost purpose,” he said.

“We gave them hope, conceded a terrible penalty, then credit to them. We got on the roller coaster where everything is going, corners and throw ins, and we never got away from that.

“The purpose we needed for third and fourth goal, I didn’t see it.”

While that might be down to title jitters, Arteta doesn’t feel that’s the case, believing the pressure is the same it’s been all season.

“It’s the same, I don’t know how many notches there were a few months ago. We can’t control it,” he added.

He also felt Saka’s penalty miss had little to do with pressure.

“A player who takes penalties misses penalties, I don’t know anyone who hasn’t,” he said.

READ MORE: West Ham 2-2 Arsenal: Saka penalty miss means Gunners lead cut to four points as Man City lurk