The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills alum revealed there is an actual “skateboard room” in her manse — and how did we not know this before?

The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills alum revealed there is an actual “skateboard room” in her manse — and how did we not know this before?

Adrienne Maloof may not be well versed in washing chickens, but The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills alum does have surprising skills in another area. In a recent Instagram post, Adrienne revealed that she not only knows how to skateboard but has a whole skateboard room in her Los Angeles mansion.

This room comes as a revelation since we thought we’d seen every corner of the well-appointed home. But as it turns out, Adrienne’s crib isn’t all breathtaking pools, lush rose gardens, and over-the-top holiday decor. There’s also a room that’s just as sporty as it is swanky.

In a March 5 Instagram post, the hospitality expert shared a photo of herself in an iridescent recliner with a built-in cupholder. The room has light carpeting, and its walls are covered in a collage of images depicting skaters and street scenery.

In the image, Adrienne isn’t exactly suited up to skate. She’s sporting a blue leather trench coat, a fresh blowout, and high-heeled suede boots. But don’t let that fool you: Adrienne is no stranger to the skate life.

In her caption, the mother of three wrote, “Hanging out in my son’s skateboard room while waiting for him. The walls are of original drawings of my sons and me skateboarding.” One commenter summed it up for us all, writing, “I wanna see you skateboarding!”

The last time Adrienne offered a peek inside her Los Angeles manse, she was getting it ready for Christmas. On November 28, the New Mexico native posted an Instagram video that gave her followers a look at her oh-so-festive decor.

Adrienne’s marble countertop featured white cake stands piled with an assortment of treats. Chocolate, marshmallows, candy canes, sprinkles, and various flavors of hot chocolate were all in the mix. Plus, a “Hot Cocoa Bar” sign hung from a kitchen cabinet. “My hot cocoa bar – only 70 degrees outside,” Adrienne said in the video.

Adrienne doesn’t skimp on Thanksgiving decor, either. Just before revealing her Christmas designs, the businesswoman took to Instagram to show off her Turkey Day tablescape.

In a video shared on November 25, Adrienne showed a table set with gold-handled flatware, silver napkins, and silver candelabras filled with teal candlesticks. In her caption, she wrote, “Today I wish you peace, strength, love, and above all else… Sweet potatoes with marshmallows.”

And though there’s no video to prove it, it’s possible that Adrienne did some skating to help her digest her Thanksgiving feast.