It’s 2pm on a very hot and humid day on the island of Bodufushi. My sea plane has just pulled into Joali Being, the first ever wellbeing resort to launch in the Maldives. Luckily, I’m dressed for the occasion. My Pucci bikini is pulling me in and pushing me out in all the right places, while my silk Alexandra Miro dress gives an air of effortless style despite my internal fight against the intense tropical heat. After checking into my villa I WhatsApp my butler to collect me in his golf buggy (the only mode of island transport, aside from bikes for those feeling vigorous) to take me to lunch. We’re there in two minutes. As I glide into the deeply stylish restaurant Mojo, I take a deep sigh as I set my gaze upon the palm lined beach lit up by the twinkly aqua blue sea. This really is paradise.

Lunch is a healthy but glamorous affair and I decide I’m relocating to Joali Being at the next given opportunity. Then, as I decamp to a poolside sun lounger for the afternoon, I turn to my left and am greeted with the radiant face of the queen of skincare herself, Dr Barbara Sturm. I can’t believe my luck. Barbara and I embark on a mammoth catch-up having last seen each other in rainy London. She’s just flown in from the Hamptons having done sound healing therapy with a Hollywood A-lister – ‘it was incredible’, she says – and urges me to try it here. We make a list of treatments to try together under her thoughtful guidance.

By 6pm my daughter emerges with a sun burn. Barbara springs into action, opening her Mary Poppins-esque bag full of medicinal Sturm delights. The Calming Serum does the trick with immediate effect and we run through how best to both solve and avoid this in future. Handing me her Aloe Vera Gel she reminds me that after-sun should be an essential part of any skincare routine. ‘I created this gel to soothe and hydrate the skin and its potent concentration of aloe juice supports skin regeneration whilst purslane helps reduce irritation’, she tells me as she continues to rub it into her own skin. Dr Sturm is a walking skincare encyclopaedia and I hang off her every knowledgeable word.