Skip to main content

What are you looking for?

Who We Are:

The Nature Conservancy’s mission is to protect the lands and waters upon which all life depends. As a science-based organization, we create innovative, on-the-ground solutions to our world’s toughest challenges so that we can create a world in which people and nature thrive. We’re rooted in our Mission and guided by our Values, which includes a Commitment to Diversity and Respect for People, Communities, and Cultures. Whether it’s career development, flexible schedules, or a rewarding mission, there’s lots of reasons to love life #insideTNC. Want a better insight to TNC? Check out our TNC Talent playlist on YouTube or on Glassdoor.

Our goal is to cultivate an inclusive work environment so that all our colleagues around the globe feel a sense of belonging, and that their unique contributions to our mission are valued. We know we’ll only achieve our Mission by hiring and engaging a diverse workforce that reflects the communities in which we work. In addition to the requirements in our postings, we recognize that people come with talent and experiences outside of a job. Diversity of experience and skills combined with passion is a key to innovation and a culture of inclusion! Please apply – we’d love to hear from you. To quote myriad TNC staff members, “you’ll join for our mission, and you’ll stay for our people.”

TNC’s work in Africa transcends three key pillars: securing ownership rights to lands and resources for indigenous people, strengthening leadership and resource management, and helping communities value nature through a holistic appreciation of its benefits while increasing revenue streams for conservation efforts and socio-economic development. Together with our partners, we are witnessing critical milestones in integrated land and fisheries management, ocean and source water protection, energy development, and sustainable food production working together and strengthening our resolve in tackling global challenges such as climate change, habitat and biodiversity loss that stands to adversely impact the nearly 1.4 billion people that share Africa

What We Can Achieve Together:

The Associate Director of Finance is a subject matter expert and serves as a resource to the Africa business unit, including as an advisor to senior-level staff. They manage the functional activities and personnel for all aspects of finance area at the Africa business unit and provides high-level financial analysis to senior business unit and organizational leadership. Reporting to the Director Finance and Operations and working closely with Business unit leadership and functions in Worldwide Office Finance and with other departments and organizational units as necessary for the effective functioning of the Finance area, the position will supervise about 5-6 staff and will be based at the TNC Regional office in Nairobi Kenya.

We’re Looking for You:

Are you looking for work you can believe in? At TNC we strive to embody a philosophy of Work that You Can Believe in where you can feel like you are making a difference every day. We’re looking for someone with strong experience in leading a diverse, multi-disciplinary team.

The ideal candidate should have exceptional communication and collaboration skills and experience in management of data and personnel. This is an exciting opportunity to contribute to the ongoing mission of conservation by directing and shaping the work of our team!

Manage the day-to-day functional activities and personnel in the Africa Business Unit's Accounting, Treasury, Audit and Compliance, budgeting, and reporting areas and provide financial analysis to senior management.

Responsible for managing, maintaining, and reporting financial data, and monitoring management controls and processes to ensure compliance with TNC policies and procedures, relevant legal and regulatory frameworks, and financial/management best practices.

Co-lead the fiscal year budgeting process, ensuring the accuracy of budgets and their completion within set deadlines with a focus on developing budget templates, alignment to proposed activities, and staffing plans as well as ensuring requisite cost recovery.

Manages overall financial activities to achieve the Africa program's strategic goals

Work toward meeting the program's strategic priorities by developing and coordinating plans and related tactics and overseeing day-to-day tasks in the various areas of the finance function.

Lead and support budget development for proposals, private award management, cost assignments, and award modifications and ensure proposal compliance check, adequate coverage of operational costs, and alignment to donor requirements and TNC policies.

Provide high-level financial analysis to senior organizational leadership, on budgets, financial performance, and other specific areas.

Support finance team in periodic financial reporting and annual key tasks – Council, Leadership reports, and annual revenue allocations - to ensure accuracy, completeness, and timeliness.

Co-lead the fiscal year budgeting process with the Conservation Director by overseeing preparation and maintenance of BU multiyear operating budget; ensures cost coverage for operating costs and oversee updates to the operating budget actions, and changes regularly

They cross-function with other business development activities, which includes tracking business forecasts, and budget performance to ensure alignment with annual strategic plans

Highlight any key challenges or opportunities influencing the BU’s performance against goals

Ensure programmatic commitments, TNC policies and procedures, financial standards, and legal requirements are met and managed for compliance.

Manage, support, and monitor new financial initiatives in the Africa Business unit.

Reinforce consistency in the organization's policies and procedures and provides support related to the relevant field.

Supervise professional and finance staff and build their capacity.

Bachelor’s degree in Finance, Accounting, Business Administration or related field and 7 years related work experience.

Experience working with computer and information management systems, Excel spreadsheets and databases for financial analysis, fiscal management, and financial reports.

Experience working in complex contexts and dealing with complex situations.

Experience developing budgets, performing high level financial analysis, and recommending corrective action as appropriate.

Experience acting as an advisor to senior executives.

Experience with GAAP and not-for-profit accounting principles, practices, and regulations, including government grants accounting and reporting.

Experience working with U. S. Federal government circulars (OMB Circulars A-110, A-122 and A-133) and state and local regulations.

Highly skilled in analysing, manipulating, and interpreting data, developing, reporting, and implementing solutions.

Demonstrated ability to work well in a team environment and build relationships with diverse departments, collaborators, and field staff.

Advanced Excel modelling skills and proficiency in other Microsoft Office Suite applications including Power BI, PowerPoint, Word, and Outlook.

Ability to model and synthesize complex financial information and operating and KPI data into appealing presentations (to a nonfinancial audience) to facilitate understanding of operational results and drive performance improvement decisions.

Ability to manage finances or budgets of multiple projects concurrently. Ability to quickly come up to speed on new concepts by synthesizing research for deeper analysis.

Service oriented. Courteous, personable, tactful, and experienced dealing effectively with all levels of staff.

Since 1951, The Nature Conservancy has been doing work you can believe in protecting the lands and waters that all life depends on. Through grassroots action, TNC has grown to become one of the most effective and wide-reaching environmental organizations in the world. Thanks to more than 1 million members, over 400 scientists, and the dedicated efforts of our diverse staff, we impact conservation throughout the world!

The Nature Conservancy offers a competitive, comprehensive benefits package including health care benefits, Pension/ Gratuity stipend including employer match, parental leave, accrued paid time off, life insurance, disability coverage, employee assistance program, other life and work wellbeing benefits. Learn more about our benefits at in the Culture Tab on nature.org/careers.

We’re proud to offer a work-environment that is supportive of the health, wellbeing, and flexibility needs of the people we employ!

This description is not designed to be a complete list of all duties and responsibilities required for this job.

The Nature Conservancy is an Equal Opportunity Employer. Our commitment to diversity includes the recognition that our conservation mission is best advanced by the leadership and contributions of people of diverse backgrounds, beliefs, and cultures. Recruiting and mentoring staff to create an inclusive organization that reflects our global character is a priority and we encourage applicants from all cultures, races, colors, religions, sexes, national or regional origins, ages, disability status, sexual orientations, gender identities, military, protected veteran status or other status protected by law.

TNC is committed to offering accommodations for qualified individuals with disabilities and disabled veterans in our job application process. If you need assistance or an accommodation due to a disability, please send a note to applyhelp@tnc.org with Request for Accommodation in the subject line