SINGAPORE — A male cyclist was hospitalised with a minor brain bleed, following an accident involving two cycling groups along Upper Thomson Road towards Sembawang on Sunday morning (16 April).

Andy Oh, 49, had apparently lost his balance and fell after a group of cyclists collided into him while trying to overtake his group.

His wife Serlina Eng wrote in a Facebook post on Sunday that the accident was due to "crazy cyclists" who "let their egos get the better of them, ignoring the safety of others".

According to The Straits Times, the police are currently investigating this accident between the two groups of cyclists.

Video footage from a camera attached to Oh's bicycle was shared in Eng's Facebook post, and showed the moment of the accident.

The footage revealed that a large group of cyclists had overtaken Oh's group, and some of them appeared to be riding too close to one another and to those in Oh's group. Oh lost his balance and crashed after a cyclist moved past him on his right.

The other cyclists in Oh's group stopped at a nearby bus stop to tend to his injuries, while the cyclists in the other group rode off despite screams and shouts from Oh's wife and his group's cyclists.

Eng expressed her disappointment, saying that those cyclists had no regard for the safety of others and failed to stop when they heard the crash, despite being able to hear it loud and clear.

She added that her husband had suspected hip and elbow fractures ruled out, and was being closely monitored for his brain bleed.

In her post, she mentioned that a cyclist from the second group eventually reached out to her.

Since January last year, cyclists are allowed to ride in groups of no larger than five bicycles in a single file, or 10 if cycling two abreast, according to the Transport Ministry.

Do you have a story tip? Email: sgnews.tips@yahooinc.com.

You can also follow us on Facebook, Instagram, TikTok and Twitter. Also check out our Southeast Asia, Food, and Gaming channels on YouTube.