Tucker Carlson has struck on the (admittedly obvious) key to success in appealing to the neurasthenic audience of Fox News: Conceive the most grotesque, offensive, convoluted interpretation of any current affair, and put it on the air.

Jack Teixeira is by all accounts a 21-year-old idiot with a severe impulse-control deficit. But to Tucker he's a heroic whistleblower.

"Tonight, the news media are celebrating the capture of the kid who told Americans what’s actually happening in Ukraine," said the host last week. "They are treating him like Osama Bin Laden,  maybe even worse actually, because, unlike Al Qaeda, apparently, this kid is a racist.

"The United States is a direct combatant in a war against Russia. As we speak, American soldiers are fighting Russian soldiers," Carlson continued. "This is a hot war between the two primary nuclear superpowers on Earth. And yet, this war has never been formally declared. It has not been authorized by Congress. And for that reason, this war is a violation of American law. It is a crime."

All this is, of course, pure horseshit. The "American soldiers" of whom Tucker spoke are stationed at the U. S. embassy in Kyiv, "work[ing] on accountability of the material that is going in and out of Ukraine," said National Security Council spokesman John Kirby. And the work they're doing is just as congressional Republicans demanded.

They're engaged in no "direct combat," there is no "hot war" with Russia, and the assistance we're providing Ukraine has been authorized by Congress. As for a formal declaration of war, that might seem a bit silly, since the U. S. isn't in one.

Tucker's assertions are but another instance of the cognitive disconnect between Fox News primetime and Fox News daytime as well as FoxNews.com. The Kirby quote is from the latter. And the network's White House correspondent, Jacqui Heinrich, had already reported that "US troops are not fighting in Ukraine."

The small security and accountability contingent is what Tucker claimed was in fact a massive, covert, illicit U. S. troop presence in Ukraine; but brave Jack Teixeira exposed it, and so now he's been arrested for contradicting "the National Security State and their obedient servants in the media."

What disturbs me about Tucker's "reporting," however, is not what he said. It's that what he said was unoriginal — and we look to Tucker for more than horseshit recycling. I'm not always up on the very latest in right-wing crackpottery, but it appears the Honorable Marjorie Taylor Greene, for one, beat Tucker to the punch, hours before his broadcast:

Jake Teixeira is white, male, christian, and antiwar.

That makes him an enemy to the Biden regime.

And he told the truth about troops being on the ground in Ukraine and a lot more.

Ask yourself who is the real enemy?

A young low level national guardsmen?

Or the…

— Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene🇺🇸 (@RepMTG) April 13, 2023