I greatly admire Mr Cowell, I’ve basked in his company for years. I was sure, however, he was a dreadful booking for that monied, sophisticated crew.“They will barely have heard of him,” I muttered. “They’re used to being entertained by Boris Johnson or Barack Obama. These folk take a box at the opera on Saturday nights. They’re hardly munching a takeaway on the sofa in front of The X Factor.”I was wrong. The great and the good melted in the flame of Simon’s fame. They flocked for selfies and despite their wealth and influence, were beguiled by his notoriety. They believed that fame makes a person extra special.

They should have taken a lesson from Harry Styles’s grounded and sensible mother, former pub landlady Anne Twist, 55. She’s having none of this gilded, super-power, legend-creating fame fallacy. Anne tells it as it is. Harry is no all-conquering hero, he’s just her 29-year-old boy.“To me, he’s just Harry,” says Anne. “He’s what he’s always been. As a very little boy, he was always very much like he is now, just a smaller version. When he gets home he does what all boys do – raids the fridge.”Of course, Anne adores Harry’s older sister Gemma just as enthusiastically. “They are both kind, with good morals,” she says, dispelling any notion that the more famous Harry is in any way rarer or more precious than his sibling.

In 30 years of interviewing the famous – and accruing a level of infamy myself – I have seen time and again that those in the limelight are never the most beautiful, talented, pushy or blessed with an indefinable USP. They are – depending on your perspective – the lucky ones. They were in the right place at the right time when someone had the money, the idea, or the position to give them a boost into the spotlight. Then they were fortunate (or unfortunate) enough to be somewhere in which that attention had a chance to grow.They are no more charming, kinder, more sexually alluring or brighter than everyone else we’ve never heard of. Their light burns brighter because of the oxygen of publicity but the downside of fame is a precipitous chasm and they are doomed to disappoint everyone in person – except their mother.

Congratulations to Michelle Keegan, 35, and her husband Mark Wright, 36, on their sparkling white and pristine dream home in Essex. Spacious and immaculate in its layering of textured neutrals, the house is delectable. But controversy rages among armchair critics, over the 15 karate-chopped cushions arranged on the double-L-shaped cream sofa. Imagine life in thrall to all those cushions, they type.How will the couple sleep knowing that one might topple and send the entire artfully constructed edifice into disarray?I say, let the couple enjoy their sofa maintenance. Some of us like to prune plants. Others polish silver. Punching cushions into submission is a magnificent outlet for life’s frequent frustrations.

I am 61 but I still love the emojisWill I celebrate the Coronation by making liberal use of the new crown emoji? Of course! I’ll scatter it everywhere. Yes, I am 61 and should be far too venerable to litter my scribbles with cartoon silliness. Yet, I am a sucker for a red heart emoji – green if in Ireland – a pink flower, a sun and a star. I have given every recent missive Easter emojis with a little chick breaking out of an egg.I should know better but somehow I can’t reject something decorative which gives a little levity to my ramblings. I will be using the crown emoji the moment it is available. You have been warned.

Oh Ryan Reynolds, I want to be you when I grow up. I care not a fig for your Hollywood stardom and blooming bank balance –

it’s your latest acquisition I envy: a four-bedroom house in the delightful North Wales village of Marford. In 1969 my dad whirled us from our supremely suburban house in Totteridge – the Beverly Hills of north-west London – to the tiny village of Llanthony, 12 miles from Abergavenny.We found a pub, the Half Moon, the crumbling ruins of a romantic abbey, any number of ewes and gambolling lambs – and nothing else. It was earthly bliss.I’ll never forget the sweet smell of the air, the fields climbing the mountains like a rainbow tapestry or the amateur dramatic production of New Moon by the Abergavenny Players.If Ryan’s family enjoy Wales with a fraction of the gusto of the wandering Feltzes it’ll be the best purchase of his life.

Misery? Shake it off with meIf it is true that Taylor Swift has split from her British beau Joe Alwyn after six years, she has my sympathy. Going it alone, as I am currently finding out, is a heck of a shock to the system. It feels so different to be solo, and even tried-and-trusted activities such as going to the cinema or buying breakfast feel alien and uncomfortable. I’ve been single for 85 nights and have gone out for every one. The aloneness of coming back to an echoing empty house and simply sitting in solitary confinement till the next morning is still too much for me to contemplate.All this schlepping about is exhausting and expensive, and although I am unbelievably lucky to have wonderful family and friends I am beginning to run dry and will have to rope them in for round two.If Taylor is at a loose end she can contact me via the Express. I’ll stand her a pie and mash.