Last Updated on April 14, 2023 by admin

Case studies are a powerful tool that can influence customers to build trust on your brand.

No wonder that many companies use a case study to showcase radical success stories and demonstrate expertise in a particular area.

A case study is essentially an in-depth analysis of a real-world business problem or situation. The narrative focuses on a particular project that a company executed recently.

Many leaders in the field of content marketing, such as The Content Marketing Institute use case studies to showcase amazing work done in the past.

You may have some middle-of-the-funnel customers who know your brand but need more proof of your credibility. You can drive better engagement from such an audience via a case study.

It is designed to showcase the problem-solving skills and expertise of the company. Readers get a glimpse of the industry authority position of the company. This happens because they can cohesively narrate how they handled a complex or challenging project with successful outcomes.

What will happen the next time readers need an expert to solve their specific problems?

Yes! They will definitely remember this company and call them up for their expertise.

This is how content writing for case studies helps companies to connect with prospective customers.

The three main parts of a standard case study format are as below:

This section provides two vital details here:

1a — An overview of the company or industry being studied

Without naming the company, the case study talks about the client and some background on their offerings.

1b — The specific problem or issue that the study is focused on

It talks about the distinct problem for which the client came to the company that will write the case study content

It sets the context for the case study and explains why the issue is important and worthy of analysis. This section typically includes background information, relevant statistics, and other contextual details.

Content writing for a case study will focus on the steps taken to address the problem or issue at hand. It may include

- a discussion of potential solutions that were considered, and

- an explanation of why the chosen solution was the most effective.

This section should be clear and concise. Readers will get a detailed understanding of what was the mandate for the company working on the project. It also tells the various alternative explored by the company. Lastly, it spells out the most feasible solution to resolve the problem.

This is the heart of the content writing for a case study.

The writer needs to list out all the possible technical points of the solution without being overbearing in the use of jargon. The trick here is to retain the technical / complex point and yet make it a good read for the reader.

Remember that your target reader will be interested in the goals you have achieved. But with this section of the case study, you also show the path you took to achieve that goal.

This section discusses the outcomes that were achieved as a result of the chosen solution. It may include quantitative data such as financial metrics. It can also cover qualitative information like customer feedback or employee satisfaction rates.

The goal of this section is to demonstrate the positive impact of the solution on the business or industry being studied and to show readers the tangible benefits that were achieved.

For example, this section may say:

“Due to this solution, the client was able to save 135 hours per month for the sales support team.”

“This solution shaved off $1.3 million in staff training across the 90 offices in 25 countries.”

If a solution drives multiple benefits, then it is wise to list them all, as shown in the below instance -

a — Increased productivity: With the new system in place, tasks were completed more quickly and efficiently. This resulted in a 30% increase in productivity.

b — Improved accuracy: The new system reduced the number of errors and mistakes that were occurring in the workflow. This resulted in a 40% decrease in rework. It also brought about a significant improvement in overall quality.

c — Increased revenue: The increased productivity and improved quality resulted in a 20% increase in revenue for XYZ Company.

Finally, the conclusion summarizes the key findings of the case study. This section ends with providing recommendations for future action.

Your case study seeks to demonstrate the real-world efficacy of your core competencies. If the targeted prospects are attracted by it, they need to know what to do next after reading the case study content.

This is where a CTA button embedded at the end can come in handy. They can be repurposed as ad popups and videos for better outreach.

Experts like Quick Sprout have proven how case study can drive substantial business gains. But is a case study for everyone?

We may say, No.

Specific businesses or industries may benefit a lot from publishing case studies for SEO purposes:

Business-to-business (B2B) companies benefit greatly from publishing case studies on their website. Their target demographic is a cost-oriented customer that wants the best ROI in marketing. Potential customers in this space often conduct extensive research before making a purchase. They look for evidence that a particular company has the expertise to solve their specific problems.

A case study will go a long way in strengthening their trust in the B2B company’s offerings.

Marketing agencies and consulting firms gain huge traction with a well-articulated case study. The case study proves that the services company is ideal for meeting its specific business goal. This will also prove to be helpful for software development companies, professional services, and other service-based firms.

Compelling case study content writing can demonstrate their ability to meet the unique needs of each individual client.

Hospitals, clinics, and research institutions too are primed to take advantage of case studies. As a marketing asset, they get to highlight their successes in treating specific conditions. A case study amply depicts their expertise and experience in developing new treatments or conducting ground-breaking research.

This way, a compelling and to-the-point case study can help attract patients or kickstart funding. They can also help shape new partnerships with other organizations.

If you run an academic institution like a college or online learning platform, then make sure to view a case study as a lead magnet. Top-tier educational institutions and universities cite case studies to influence admissions. In this marketing asset, they make a case for their ability to provide high-quality education and prepare students for successful careers.

For example, a case study could highlight a successful alumnus of a college who has gone on to achieve great success in their field. This type of promotional material will sway parents’ and learners’ decision in your favor, and take admission to your academic institution.

Non-profits have a special affinity for case studies. They leverage this asset to demonstrate the impact of their work. In doing so, they get to attract potential donors and volunteers. For example, a case study can mention the details of a successful fundraising campaign. This way, the case study helps it to attract other entities to release funds towards a noble cause.

Hotels, resorts, and other hospitality businesses need a lot of convincing to attract eyeballs and enable conversions. But they can use a case study to make this challenging task easy. A case study will help showcase their exceptional customer service and provide evidence of guest satisfaction.

Take the case of an event management company. A case study could highlight a successful event hosted by the business that exceeded customer expectations. A resort website can have a case study highlighting how it took care of a big business delegation. This will help them attract the B2B audience for their corporate needs.

Every locality listing has specific real estate needs and paperwork. When real estate companies articulate their ability to ensure winning property deals for their customers, it really helps.

They can use case study content writing to highlight successful transactions and demonstrate their expertise in the local market. A good instance could be a case study that highlights a successful sale or rental. It can go on to demonstrate how the realtor’s efforts resulted in a happy customer and a positive outcome for the company.

Manufacturing companies are key candidates to use case studies. They can explain complex processes and strategies in simpler terms. This will also help their target customers to assess their competencies in offering high-quality products and solving complex manufacturing challenges.

Here, an example can be a case study that showcases a successful project that resulted in a new product or process. The benefits section can depict improved efficiency and increased profitability.

To sum up, practically every industry that wants to portray a past customer as a hero of the story will need a case study. And experts like Animalz too offer a similar thought.

You may wonder what are some situations where you can get a case study prepared by professional content writing companies. Let us help you out here.

Below are some key factors to consider when deciding whether to write a case study for a project executed:

If a project was routine, then don’t make it a part of your case study. It should demonstrate something out-of-the-box, different, or complex.

A case study should be written for projects that had a significant impact on your business, clients, or industry.

For example, if your project resulted in major cost savings, increased revenue, or improved customer satisfaction, it may be worth creating a case study to showcase these accomplishments.

Your team may have a standard approach (or SOP) for executing a project. But some projects really test the team’s mettle with a challenging scope or complex requirement.

A case study can be a fantastic channel to showcase your unique approach to such a project or problem. Suppose your project involved a novel solution or approach that is different from what others in your industry are doing.

In such a scenario, you may want to showcase your innovative thinking. You may want to establish yourself as a leader in your field with this ingenuity. Engrossing case study content writing can help you in this endeavor.

Does your project involve overcoming significant challenges or obstacles? Then a case study can help. You get to share lessons learned and best practices that helped you overcome these challenges. Such a marketing content asset can be valuable information for industry peers who may face similar challenges in the future.

Clients would definitely recognize your ability to go above and beyond in the line of duty. In such a scenario, a case study can help you showcase their feedback and satisfaction with the work you provided.

In the digital marketing world, this can be a powerful endorsement. As a result, the case study content can help attract new clients or customers to your business.

A case study can be a powerful tool for improving a website’s search engine optimization (SEO) and attracting potential customers to a business. Any business that wants to showcase its expertise in a particular area, demonstrate its problem-solving skills, and highlight its success stories can benefit from publishing a case study on its website for SEO.

It helps in pulling the audience’s attention your way with these important USPs -

As marketing collateral, a case study offers an opportunity to showcase your expertise. It helps you demonstrate your ability to solve complex problems or provide high-quality products or services.

Such a valuable asset can help establish your business as a thought leader in your industry. The outcome is that it can improve your search engine rankings and attract leads easily.

Case studies provide detailed information about specific projects or solutions. This can be valuable to potential customers who are researching solutions to their own problems.

You radiate a positive impression when you provide this information in a well-written and informative case study. As a result, you can attract hard-to-convince online buyers with a well-written case study developed by a professional content writer.

High-quality case study content writing can attract backlinks from other websites. The valuable information can attract other companies and individuals who will link your advertised case study.

Backlinks are a key factor in search engine algorithms. High-quality, relevant websites linking to your content can significantly bolster your SEO efforts.

Did you know that case studies bring an intriguing USP to your website? They are engaging and informative. This fact keeps visitors on your website longer and encourages them to explore other content.

This can improve your website’s metrics, such as time on site and bounce rate. As a result, you witness an increased likelihood of them requesting a quote online or asking for more information from your sales team.

This way, a case study helps the buyer’s journey to progress to successful conversion.

Case studies are great for presenting social proof of the company’s caliber. It shows that your business is capable of delivering high-quality solutions and achieving significant results.

Such credible evidence can help build trust with potential customers. As an outcome, you get to improve conversions and attract more customers over time.

Yes, it is true that anyone can write a case study.

But when you sit down to actually write it, you find it taking up a lot of your precious time.

This is why you need a capable content writer for a case study.

There are many reasons why it is important to hire a professional writer to make a case study. In this section of the blog, we will explore a few of these reasons in detail.

One of the main reasons to hire a professional for case study content writing is that they have experience crafting compelling narratives.

Remember — a case study is not simply a collection of facts and figures. Rather, it goes beyond this baseline.

A professional content writer will weave in a story about your company. The refreshing narrative captures the attention of the reader and keeps them engaged from start to finish.

You can rely on the wordsmith to structure the case study in a way that makes sense. They make certain to highlight the most pertinent information. This helps catch the audience’s attention. Plus, they ensure that the narrative flows smoothly.

Their mastery over the use of captivating words effectively will convey the key messages. Doing so creates a sense of urgency in the reader’s mind. And this will go a long way in compelling the readers about the importance of the issue being discussed.

Different audiences will have different needs and expectations when it comes to reading a case study. For instance, investors will be interested in financial metrics and return on investment. On the other hand, general customers may be more interested in customer satisfaction rates and testimonials.

When you hire a writer for a case study, it works in your favor. They will have a deep understanding of your target audience.

A skilled writer has the competencies to tailor the language, tone, choice of words to frame a case study. As a result the content of the case study will be as per the audience it is catering to. With this mastery, the case study content writing resonates with the intended audience. This can be especially important for coaxing key stakeholders to take action based on the case study’s findings.

Data and numbers form the backbone of a strong case study. You need to depict tangible results in the ‘Benefits’ section of the case study.

Expert writers for a case study are skilled at conducting research and analysis. This can prove to be a game changer in the above area.

They will do a range of tasks to create a comprehensive and insightful case study. This includes gathering, analyzing, and presenting insights on a wide range of data, from financial statements to customer feedback surveys.

A professional writer will know how to conduct the research efficiently and effectively. They make certain that they have access to all the information needed to create a compelling case study. They will also be able to analyze this information in a way that draws out key insights and trends.

As a result, the readers will quickly identify the most effective strategies for addressing the problem at hand.

A skilled and experienced content writer is essential for creating a case study for a complex project. Such marketing collateral requires a deep understanding of the project, the industry, and the target audience. And this is where a professional content writer comes in handy.

Here are some interesting tips for selecting the right content writer for the job:

Imagine if you have to choose between two writers. ‘A’ has written more than 25 case studies on various themes/ industries. While ‘B’ has not written any case study content.

Who will you choose?

Obviously, ‘A’ will be a better choice, right?

So, select a content writer who has experience in creating case studies for similar complex projects. If they have experience in your industry or related fields, then it is an added impetus to pick them.

Look for a content writer who has strong writing skills. They need to write clearly and concisely and use proper grammar and spelling. Moreover, they need to organize information effectively and create 100% original content free of any plagiarism.

You can evaluate their writing skills by reviewing their portfolio, samples, and references.

Go for a case study content writing expert who has strong communication skills. They need to possess the ability to ask questions, clarify information, and work collaboratively with your team. Such skills will help the writer understand the technical details and stats / data of the project.

This way, when they actually develop the case study, the asset will accurately reflect the project’s objectives and outcomes.

A case study is, in itself, a deep perspective of data and information. Go for a content writer who has strong research and analytical skills to score heavily on this factor. They need to be comfortable in gathering information from diverse sources within your team or from the public domain.

They need to analyze the resulting data. Doing so helps them present complex information in a clear and concise manner.

It is wise to zero in on a content writer who has a keen eye for detail. With this skill, they can ensure that the case study is error-free and properly formatted. Plus, their case study will follow the required style guidelines and formatting mandates.

They need to be communicative when you interact with them during the prospecting and onboarding stage. They need to meet deadlines and deliver high-quality work on time.

Checking their Google reviews and online testimonials will help you assess them on this important factor.

To sum it up

We tend to understand a theory better when we tie it to a real-life situation. A case study helps to understand concepts better as it is set in a case. It helps a company highlight success stories and demonstrate expertise.

By doing so, they can attract potential customers, partners, and supporters. Its SEO benefits improve its online visibility and reputation too.

Get in touch with us today to learn more about the content development expertise on offer at Textuar for developing case studies.

helps build a coherent data-backed story in a crisp case study that will act as a lead magnet.