Sultan Al Neyadi will soon become the first astronaut from the Arab world to embark on a spacewalk.

Read also: UAE astronaut Sultan Al Neyadi shares an astonishing video of Makkah from International Space Station

The Emirati astronaut is set to perform the historic spacewalk on April 28, 2023.

Now, as per Gulf News, NASA has revealed the time and other important details of the Arab world’s first spacewalk.

NASA, the US Space Agency also revealed the details on the task which is related to the installation of upgraded solar arrays.

The Crown Prince of Dubai and President of the Mohammed Bin Rashid Space Centre (MBRSC), Sheikh Hamdan bin Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum on April 6, 2023, announced that the 41-year-old astronaut will go on to perform the spacewalk on April 28, 2023.

Inspired by Zayed’s ambitions, today our ambassador to space @Astro_Alneyadi is preparing for the first spacewalk by an Arab astronaut on 28 April. This will make the UAE the 10th country to undertake Extravehicular Activity (EVA) on the @Space_Station. pic.twitter.com/FVWxtZwZeo

— Hamdan bin Mohammed (@HamdanMohammed) April 6, 2023

Sultan Al Neyadi who is the United Arab Emirates’ second astronaut after Hazza Al Mansouri is currently on the longest Arab space mission which is of six months. The astronaut took off for the International Space Station (ISS) in March.

The Sultan will conduct the historic first-ever spacewalk outside the International Space Station beside his NASA Crew-6 mate, Stephen Bowen.

NASA revealed that the two crew members would conduct the spacewalk to install the hardware to support future upgrades on the power system. This will improve the orbiting space laboratory’s power generation capability.

According to NASA, here’s how you can watch the Arab astronaut Sultan Al Neyadi perform his first historic spacewalk:

The historic spacewalk which is expected to last about 6.5 hours will be covered live and will air on NASA Television, the NASA app, and on its website.

The spacewalk will begin at 7.45 am, i.e., 3.45 pm GST on Friday.

Read also: Sultan AlNeyadi pays tribute to the UAE’s founding father from International Space Station