Some customers have been asked to pay large sums of money after the were undercharged through no fault of their own

Some customers have been asked to pay large sums of money after the were undercharged through no fault of their own

Hard-up families have been hit by shock messages from energy supplier Boost asking them to pay hundreds of pounds because their smart prepayment meters gave incorrect readings.

Customers using pay-as-you go meters have been asked for large sums of money after the were undercharged through no fault of their own when a 'technical issue' meant that their smart meters did not record the new prices when energy costs rose in October last year.

Boost has apologised for the error, but dozens of angry customers - many of who struggle to pay for their energy amid the cost of living crisis - have taken to social media to hit out at the demands, saying they were unable to find the extra money to pay for the unexpected bill.

Read more: More families can apply for an extra £200 to help with energy costs

Boost - which supplies energy to 200,000 UK households - is the pay-as-you go arm of Ovo Energy, the UK's fourth largest domestic energy supplier. The message says that the company has reduced the total amount owed by 10% 'to say sorry', but it was cold comfort to many pay-as-you-go customers, who tend to be on low incomes and have been badly hit by rising energy prices.

The email is titled: 'We've not been charging you enough' and goes on to say 'Unfortunately, when our prices went up in October, your meter wasn't updated due to a technical problem. This means we were charging you less than we should have for a short period of time. We're sorry about this.' Then, in larger typeface, it continues: 'What happens next: you will need to pay back the difference.'

Although customers have usually been given the option to pay the bill back over time rather than in one lump sum, dozens of shocked customers have rushed to social media to check if anyone else has had the same message and to see if there is anything they can do to reject the extra charges.

One customer on a Facebook page called Boost Energy UK - Failing it’s customers - what to do next said: "I really really want to leave this company. I can’t relax in my own home I’m on pins all the time watching the smart meter. I honestly thought it was only me going through this but now I know I’m not going mad!" and another said: "Just had an email from Boost stating that my gas meter didn’t update the price increase correctly in October. They now say I owe them £193.39, this is with it reduced by 10% for the mistake. Who should I contact regarding this I don’t see why I should have to pay for their mistake as I have a smart meter installed so should update automatically."

Energy Support And Advice UK (Community), which has more than 180,000 followers, is awash with anger and shock about the bills, some of which are reported to be up to £700. One member asked: "Can Boost even do this? It's not my mum's fault - thought they was meant to be smart," and another responded: "I've now placed an official complaint, as back in October I told them they were undercharging me and the rate was wrong. They told me no you're on the correct rate. I asked if the call was recorded and she said it was. I asked her to state I was being charged correctly and wouldn't receive a request for money and she did. I even called the complaints team who actually said that I shouldn't have told them as its their error and I wouldn't have to pay back. So I had two members of Boost tell me I wouldn't pay back yet five months later I get the email. I will not be paying!!"

However, some members reported receiving the emails but being told they did not have to pay the money back. One said: " I don’t understand how they’re charging some but not others. Don’t get me wrong I’m grateful they’re not asking for money back off me, but should be one rule for all not the few," and another said: "How can they say to some customers you don't have to do anything nothing to pay back it's our fault but then tell others they have to pay it back?"

Boost Energy describes itself as 'The Pay-As-You-Go Expert' on its website and states: "We’ve made it our mission to make PAYG energy fit around your life – not the other way around." Ovo told This Is Money it was 'very sorry', adding that it has excused those most financially vulnerable. A spokesman said: 'A small number of customers were paying too little for a short period due to a technical issue. We're here to help any customers who would like additional support with an affordable plan.'

But Ian Thompson, of Energy Support And Advice UK said: "Over the last few weeks, we have had growing reports of customers of Boost Energy who have receiving demands for large debts which have built up through no fault of their own. People generally have prepayment meters to help them budget and not run up large debts they would struggle to pay, so this is terrible news for them. Unfortunately, Boost is completely within its rights to ask for repayment of the cost of energy which customers have already used, even when it is their error which has caused the problem.

"This issue is a growing trend across more than one supplier, and we think what we have seen so far might just be the tip of the iceberg. However, customers should challenge their supplier if they are asked to pay back debts caused by incorrect billing for energy used more than a year ago, as Ofgem back billing rules only allow energy used in the last 12 months to be billed for."

Simon Francis, of the End Fuel Poverty Coalition, said: "To be asked to pay back money when it's not their fault is not really on."