These Cheesy Meatball Bombs make a quick snack or main meal idea! Melty cheese, savory meatballs, wrapped in a biscuit and baked!

Do you ever have a bunch of leftover meatballs that you don’t know what to do with?

When I buy a bag of meatballs for my family of 3, I typically use only half of it and put the rest back in the freezer.

But then I forget about them, so I try to plan two meals with meatballs in that week!

If you’re looking for an easy appetizer or kid-friendly main course, these Cheesy Meatball Bombs are the way to go. With gooey cheese, a savory meatball in each one, and a garlicky biscuit, these are an excellent quick weeknight dinner!

Scroll to the bottom of the post for the recipe card, or keep reading for extra tips and tricks!

1 cup marinara sauce (And extra as a dipping sauce if you’d like)

Meatballs: I used original meatballs, but Italian-style meatballs would work as well. You can also use turkey meatballs.

I like using meatballs from the grocery store because they’re much easier to use. Plus they’re the perfect meatballs for easy dinners because they’re all the same shape and size!

If you’d rather not bother with store-bought meatballs, you can certainly make your own. My favorite meatball recipe is also freezer friendly!

Most meatball recipes call for you to combine ground beef, bread crumbs, egg, and seasonings. This takes a little extra time but might be worth it if you enjoy the flavor better!

The only thing I recommend is baking the meatballs first. This recipe doesn’t take raw meatballs into the cooking time, so they’ll need to be cooked beforehand.

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees and line a baking sheet with parchment paper.

On a cutting board, use a rolling pin to flatten each biscuit.

In the center of each dough, place 1 meatball, 1-2 tablespoons of sauce, and 2 tablespoons of cheese.

Fold all of the edges toward the center, pressing the edges together to seal. Place seam side down on the baking sheet and continue until all have been made.

Mix melted butter and garlic powder in a small bowl, and brush the garlic butter on the top of each biscuit.

Bake for 18-20 minutes until the tops are golden brown. Serve with your favorite side items and warm marinara sauce on the side for dipping.

When the meatball bombs have cooled to room temperature, store in an airtight container in the fridge. Use up within 3-5 days.

To make this a more well-rounded meal, I suggest serving this with some steamed or roasted vegetables! My favorites are broccoli and green beans.

You can serve a simple salad with this, too! I like buying the salad kits for a quick side.

Whether it’s a great appetizer for a game day party, a quick snack, or a dinner idea the whole family can enjoy, you’ll want to try these easy Meatball Bombs soon!