Nine Hills cranks out yet another cool Harley-Davidson Breakout build.

The world of custom Harley-Davidson motorcycles is one chock full of amazing displays of talent, many of which have come from all over the world - including a shop called Nine Hills in Poland. We've featured quite a few rides from this particular outfit over the years, and couldn't help but shine a light on another - this amazing custom 2013 Breakout that's been reinvented from top to bottom.

This particular build - dubbed Kilimanjaro - is the second in the builder's line of sport bike-focused Harley creations, and as such, focuses on that particular area, with stripped-down bodywork and few unnecessary frills that might add weight and take away from performance - or looks.

Further aiding this sporty look is a forward-leaning riding position, along with the classic combination of a massive and fat rear tire along with a larger-diameter, skinnier front piece. It certainly works well, because one simple look at this build is all it takes to know its true intentions.

Other notable touches present here include a widened rocker arm, as well as a modified pulley and narrow belt, helping to make room for the beefy 280mm rear tire. Nine Hills then lowered the bike and fitted it with an air suspension, making it a bit easier to get around on without sacrificing looks.

From there, Nine Hills treated this Breakout with a slew of custom bodywork including the fenders, tank, and spoiler, along with clip-on handlebars and a new headlight, giving the bike a truly unique, one-of-a-kind look.

In terms of performance, the original powerplant was treated to a Vance & Hines exhaust system and a new air filter, but the rest - including its RSD covers and other dress-up bits - are mostly for show.

Topped off with a unique matte brown paint job with gloss accents, and you've got what is easily one of the coolest Breakout builds we've seen in some time. However, given what we've seen emerge from the minds at Nine Hills over the years, we wouldn't expect anything less.

>>Join in the conversation about this custom Breakout right here in Harley-Davidson Forums.

For help with your do-it-yourself maintenance and repair projects, please visit our how-to section in the forum.