Shehu Sani, a social critic and former Nigerian lawmaker has said the supporters of the Labour Party (LP), popularly called ‘OBIdients’ are the reason Nigeria has not fallen into dictatorship.

According to him, the Obidients have become a bone stuck in the neck of the ruling party.

Sani, who has been a focal voice since the February 25 presidential election, commended Peter Obi’s army of supporters over their huge impact on the polity.

He stated this in a tweet on his verified handle on Wednesday.

“If you remove the supporters of the Labour Party from Nigeria’s political space,we will all have the peace and tranquillity we want and the tyranny we don’t want,” he tweeted.

If you remove the supporters of the Labour Party from Nigeria’s political space,we will all have the peace and tranquillity we want and the tyranny we don’t want.

Recall Peter Obi is challenging the victory of the candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC) in the immediate past election. The matter is currently before the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal (PEPT) who are set to decide the fate of the two candidates.

YOU SHOULD NOT MISS THESE HEADLINES FROM NIGERIAN TRIBUNE

Agboola Joshua is the founder and Chief Executive Officer of Joshfortech. At age 6, Joshua started…

The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has announced a new date for the commencement of the 2023 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examinations (UTME), which will now start on…

What I told Tinubu when we met in America – Primate Olabayo

The founder and primate of the Evangelical Church of Yahweh Worldwide, Theophilus Olabayo said God has shown him before…

Rapper Drake wins $2.7m on UFC 287 after betting big on Adesanya’s victory

Renowned rapper Drake has reportedly won an incredible $ 2.7 million after Israel Adesanya emerged victorious in his…

Sports team owners are some of the wealthiest people in the world, with some having amassed fortunes that…

THIS would appear to be a season of the dearth of cheery news  for  Nigeria. Virtually on all fronts (security, economy, politics, social justice, etc), it is…