Mythmere Games is currently in the midst of a successful Kickstarter to bring Matt Finch’s Swords & Wizardry Complete Revised rulebook to the masses. This edition promises some changes from previous editions as well as lots of new artwork. Swords & Wizardry Complete is fantastic and you can check out my review right here. You can receive a copy of the hardcover rulebook for a $35.00 pledge or score just the PDF for a $5.00 pledge through April 25. Expected delivery for digital products is this June with the physical releases to follow in November.

Since 2008, Swords & Wizardry has been the hallmark game for tabletop fantasy roleplaying using the 1978 ruleset, with less focus on rules, more focus on your friends and the epic adventures you’re embarking on together!

Swords & Wizardry is the ENNIE award-winning retro-clone of the original 1974-1978 rules for Dungeons & Dragons, an edition usually called Original D&D or “OD&D.” (Note that Mythmere Games isn’t affiliated with Wizards of the Coast, the publishers and trademark holders of D&D, and that Swords & Wizardry isn’t compatible or designed for use with modern D&D — it replicates a MUCH older version of the D&D game rules).

This is a complete game, with rules for character generation, monsters, magic items, encounter tables — the whole works.

For anyone who’s completely unfamiliar with the game, Swords & Wizardry is a tabletop fantasy roleplaying game. All the rules are in this book, and all you’ll need in addition are a set of gaming dice (20 sided, 8 sided, etc.), paper, and pencil. Many people also play with miniatures, but they aren’t necessary.

Swords & Wizardry is one of the oldest of the Old School Renaissance (“OSR”) games, originally written in 2008, with a large following throughout the world. Hundreds of adventures have been written for use with the system by multiple publishers, and these are still compatible with this version of the game.

The game is much more “rules-light” than most fantasy roleplaying games, so it’s fast and easy to learn the basics and start playing.

Swords & Wizardry contains a full set of 9 character classes, all the rules you need to play, including all the monsters, spells, and treasure tables.

The game rules of OD&D are similar to the B/X rules, so this game can be viewed as an “advanced” version of the B/X rules in many ways.