Best electric vans in the UK revealed – from Citroen to Renault | The Sun

Watch furious ‘Karen’ block in our family car at local supermarket, but we had the last laugh with our devious revenge | The Sun

I got back from holiday to find my car covered in cigarette burns, stinking of smoke with 100 extra miles on the clock | The Sun

The global elite is excited and terrified by AI

Today’s best interest rates for instant access and fixed term accounts

A Tech Industry Pioneer Sees a Way for the U. S. to Lead in Advanced Chips

I got back from holiday to find my car covered in cigarette burns, stinking of smoke with 100 extra miles on the clock | The Sun

A DRIVER was appalled when she returned from a five-day holiday to find her brand new car covered in cigarette burns and stinking of smoke.

Rachel Kochar's Volkswagen Golf R-Line was "filthy" on the inside, smelled "disgusting" and also had an extra 100 miles on clock, she claims.

Her vehicle's Bluetooth was even connected to three phones owned by people she had never met.

The motorist flew from London Heathrow to New York for five days last year.

Through comparison site We Compare Airport Parking, she paid £61 to meet and greet service Pay to Park, which promised to keep her Golf safe while she was away.

I challenged a £100 parking fine using ChatGPT & got it reduced to £15

But Rachel was horrified to discover they had done "the total opposite".

She said: "Before I left, it was in perfect condition and on my return it was filthy throughout.

"It stank of cigarette smoke. I had to drive it back from London to my home in Bristol and by the time I got back I felt ill from the smell.

"There were cigarette burns in the carpet and at least three phones with names attached to my Bluetooth.

I bought a used Tesla and it fell apart – it’s cost me a FORTUNE

How your seatbelt can stop you buying a dodgy motor and save your life

My nightmare neighbour steals our parking spot and jumps on our car

I show HUGE queue of traffic how to merge properly – they think I'm jumping in

"My car also had 100 miles more on the clock than when I left it."

Rachel made a swift complaint and was told the manager would investigate the matter thoroughly and get back to her.

But even after repeated phone calls over the weeks that followed, all she received was "verbal abuse", she claims.

At least two of the men she spoke to had the same names as the ones whose devices were logged into the Bluetooth system in her car, Rachel added.

She eventually managed to get the money she paid for the airport parking service back through her bank, but not the £150 she forked out to have the black diesel car valeted – nor the time spent cleaning and fighting her case.

"This probably sounds silly to some people, but I cannot explain the emotional effect this had on me for a long while afterwards," Rachel, who travelled from January 27 to February 1, 2022, said.

"It took a long time for my car to feel like my own again – I felt violated.

"As well as the valet, I had to have an air freshener run through all the vents to try and get rid of the smoke smell which lingered for weeks.

"No one should have to experience this yet other people are continuing to do so.

Read More on The Sun

Sky users are realising there’s a free, easy way to keep getting TV during outages

The 7 things your HAIR can reveal about your health – and when to see a doctor

"This company is running from all the main UK airports. They need to be stopped."

The Sun has contacted Pay to Park and We Compare Airport Parking for comment.

Oklahoma Gov. Kevin Stitt speaking to reporters in Tulsa in September 2020. Photo: Jabin Botsford/The Washington Post via Getty Images...

The global elite is excited and terrified by AI

A Tech Industry Pioneer Sees a Way for the U. S. to Lead in Advanced Chips

Today’s best interest rates for instant access and fixed term accounts

Experts at money.co.uk have today released a list of the top-paying savings accounts. The group has urged Britons to take...

Post Office can be used for savings as 400 bank branches to close

We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.