People are being asked to give their views on future uses for Margam Castle and its associated buildings at an interactive exhibition being held at the iconic building from Wednesday, April 19th to Wednesday, April 26th , 2023.

People are being asked to give their views on future uses for Margam Castle and its associated buildings at an interactive exhibition being held at the iconic building from Wednesday, April 19th to Wednesday, April 26th , 2023.

In 2021, Neath Port Talbot Council was successful in securing a grant from The National Lottery Heritage Fund for an options appraisal and feasibility study for Margam Castle.

The grant has enabled the council to engage specialist support to work alongside its stakeholders in developing a comprehensive master plan for the castle and its associated buildings.

As part of the research phase of the project, an initial survey took place in December 2022 which asked members of the public to put forward ideas for the future of Margam Castle.

With up to 500 responses, this survey gave a clear indication of what participants wanted to see inside the castle in the future. Responses included; space in the castle to increase the events and activities offer, introduction of overnight accommodation, museum or exhibition space, an educational facility and resources for schools.

Further views are now being invited at the interactive exhibition inside Margam Castle. The exhibition displays will include the ideas received during the initial survey process as well as new fascinating historical information about what the castle looked like in its heyday.

Visitors to the consultation exhibition will be able to comment on the future options and ideas for Margam Castle (bearing in mind the difficult financial circumstances currently being endured by local authorities) and also share stories about their connections to the castle.

There will also be the chance to view interesting historical artefacts on display in the castle’s library during the consultation period.

Cllr Jeremy Hurley, Neath Port Talbot Council’s Cabinet Member for Climate Change and Wellbeing said: “We are thrilled to have received this funding thanks to National Lottery players.

“This important investment will allow us to investigate repair and conservation of the castle and also find new uses that will serve the local community, attract new audiences and generate new income streams.”

An online consultation will be active on Margam Country Park’s website for the duration of the consultation period for those who unable to attend the exhibition in the castle.

For more information on the project, please visit the following link: www.margamcountrypark.co.uk/34204