We've updated our  Privacy Policy  and by continuing you're agreeing to the updated terms.

This website uses cookies for functionality, analytics and advertising purposes as described in our  Privacy Policy . If you agree to our use of cookies, please continue to use our site. Or  Learn more

My oldest (M) and I just returned from a 2 night trip, April 15-17, to attend the NHRA 4-wide Nationals drag racing finals on Sunday! But one cannot go to Vegas without experiencing a little of all the other fun activities, so we left Saturday morning to have some time to gamble and get our drink on. We passed Bob on our way there!

This is my first ever trip to Vegas without spending any time on the strip.  We arrived around lunch time and our first stop was Le Thai.  M hadn’t been there before so I let her make the selections to share.  We had nigori sake, a fried chicken appetizer, and pad thai.  We were given the choice of heat level from 1-5 and went with 3.  Everything was delicious, but we really should’ve gone with a 4 or 5 heat level.  Apparently we’re more badass than we gave ourselves credit for.

After lunch, it was close to 3 so we headed to El Cortez to check in.  For anyone who’s been there lately, they are still doing the wristbands.  At least the wristbands open your door, so that’s a change from my last stay.  I hate wearing a wristband that glaringly announces where I’m staying, so I asked the lady that checked us in to put it on loosely and she did.  That way I could slip it off when I didn’t need it. I booked a 2 queen original 47 room.  It was lovely!  Spacious and comfortable.  We were far away from the stairs and had no issues with noise at all, from downstairs nor from Fremont Street.

And ladies, make sure your shoes match the room decor.  It’s the latest fashion trend.

So now it was time to drink and gamble!  M got started at El Cortez while I got ready.  She played a 3-Way Action poker machine and turned $20 into $235.  She cashed out and we went to Hennessey's for a Guinness for me and a hard lemonade concoction for M.  We sat at a bar looking out across the street at Heart Attack Grill, listening to the thwack of patrons getting punished and watching people weigh themselves for fun (I’ve not eaten there, but apparently if you don’t finish your meal you get paddled by a “nurse.”  We witnessed a few people who did not clean their plate and had to pay the price). Our next stop was the D for Sigma Derby and more drinks.  We both threw away $20 on it, but it was a lot of fun.  At one point I won 66 credits!  Biggest Sigma Derby win for me so far!  Then it was off to Circa where M likes to play video-dealer group BJ and I sat at the sports book playing video poker.  Oh, and more drinks of course.  After we both busted out we headed back to the Parlour Bar at El Cortez.  Michael Nugent was singing there that night.  Very Vegas lounge singer vibe.  M loved him!  We finished out the evening there and headed up to bed.  The stairs to the original 47 rooms are much more complicated while wearing heels and after having a few drinks.

See who reacted to this postSunday morning, we rolled out of bed regretting the imbibing of the previous night, and headed out to the Las Vegas Motor Speedway. We arrived early enough to participate in the track walk.  I had no idea it was so sticky! It’s like walking on a glue trap.  People were losing shoes left and right, children were down.  I wandered the pit, but didn’t get any pics with my favorite drivers this time.  However, one of my favorite drivers won top fuel so that was awesome (Woot Antron Brown!). I also won a reusable bag and a cup on the Toyota wheel spin. This recliner was the best vehicle at the races

See who reacted to this postAfter the races, we took a little break in the room then headed out to Triple George for a dinner of filet mignon, brussels sprouts, and mac and cheese at the bar.  Our server was fantastic, all the staff at the bar were friendly and on top of things.

We were both pretty done by then, so we headed back to the room to watch tv and relax for the remainder of the evening.

Monday morning began with breakfast at Public Us – berry waffles for me and bang bang chicken bento box for M.  I absolutely love this place.  The vibe is cool and the food is delicious!  The waffles are so crispy and light.

The walk to Public Us from the El Cortez was a little sketchy.  You wouldn’t expect issues at 10 in the morning, but we were harassed and cussed out 3 different times by various homeless people.  We took a slightly different route back towards Fremont Street and managed to avoid any issues.

We wandered around Fremont Street a bit but decided to head back to El Cortez because M wanted to play that video poker machine again. She won a bit more.  I headed to the bar to play video poker.  I love the bartender there, he was giving all the patrons shit and we were eating it up.  I also loved the video poker there – this was my best hand

We played a little more, then figured we should quit while we were ahead.  We cashed in, got our free Blue Bunny ice cream bars, and headed out for home.

lipgloss ,  fasteddiec ,  x PartyOfOne x ,  ShelbyMustangGuy ,  Booker  plus  additional person liked this postSee who reacted to this postYou have made me want to stay there now!   I am sure I would love the lounge singer at the Parlour bar.

Looks like a super fun weekend…thanks for sharing!Looks like the weather was nice for the races. Man,been decades since I've been to the speedway,even before the Nascar track was built.Used to watch the dragsters years ago in the Detroit area.You’re a fashionista knowing to have your shoes match the pillow.

Very fun trip for both of you.  Thanks for sharing.  It sounds like you and your daughter had a good time at the races, as well as dining on all of that good food.  I haven't been to a drag race, since my early high school days. LOL  Gotta love that recliner with the Viagra logo on the back too.

I still haven't given Le Thai a try.  I always seem to end up at Lotus Of Siam, since I like their northern Thai cuisine.  I also wouldn't mind trying Lemongrass at Aria which I heard is another good Thai restaurant, but it's rather expensive. LOL

The homeless situation is getting out of hand.  They really need to clean up the strip and downtown before it gets even worse.  I haven't gotten harassed by any of the homeless (yet), but they're getting harder to avoid.Wow what a totally different trip.

Thanks for all the great pictures.

Those waffles at Public us

Sent from my iPhone using TapatalkDiscover the Best Heirloom Tomato Varieties Comparable to Big Beef

Title: Discovering Heirloom Tomato Varieties Close to Big Beef

The Quest for the Perfect Heirloom Tomato Variety

In the world of tomatoes, there are countless varieties that offer unique flavors, textures, and growth habits. One popular hybrid tomato is the Big Beef variety, known for its productivity, disease tolerance, and adaptability. However, some gardeners prefer heirloom tomatoes due to their historical significance, seed-saving capabilities, and diverse characteristics. In this blog p

Organic Seeds TOP is a seed vendor based in the Ukraine. Many customers have had positive experiences ordering from them, and their customer service has been praised for keeping buyers updated on order status. It's possible to pay with credit card or Western Union, but PayPal isn't an option.

The company offers Elephant Gigantes seeds, as well as free seeds that come with recommended shelf life information included. This is standard practice when ordering from Ukraine, according to customers wh

Get Ready for a New Season of Gardening -Choose from Tomatoes, Peaches, Corn, Zinnias & More!

It's that time of year again when gardeners all over the world are planning what to grow in their gardens. From NE Ohio to North Central Mississippi, everyone has their own ideas and preferences for what they will plant this year.

For many gardeners, it starts with tomatoes. Dwarf Mr Snow, Fred's Tie Dye, Saucy Mary, Sweet Scarlet, Kangaroo Paw Green, Idaho Gem and Banana Toes are just a few of the varieties one gardener is growing in a 4x8 bed of "bulletproof" tomatoes. Another gardener is pla

Early Sweet Pepper Varieties: Which is Best for Your Climate and Taste?

Early sweet peppers are a great addition to any garden. With so many varieties available, it can be hard to decide which one is best for your climate and taste preferences. Here we discuss some of the most popular early sweet pepper varieties, their characteristics, and how they fare in different climates.

Ajvarski, Donkey's Ear, Gatherer's Gold, Jimmy Nardello, Lipstick, Melrose, Gypsy F1 hybrid, Mareko Fana, Stocky Red Roaster, Red Wonder, Little Bells and Sirenevyi are all discussed here. Aj