Disney princesses and The Hunger Games seemingly feel like polar opposites. Can you imagine these characters competing in a brutal life-or-death competition? That is precisely what some in an online forum contemplate. As different as they seem, Disney princesses experience dark and dire situations in their films, and many possess qualities that would prove helpful in winning the Hunger Games. But who would fare the best?

Elsa is technically the most powerful Disney Princess (Queen) with incredible ice powers. She is also intelligent and courageous, which would serve her well. But it's her powers that make Elsa a cut above the rest.

One explains, “Elsa can create sentient life and freeze everyone.” Additionally, she can create entire castles or fortresses out of thin air and “autonomous ice creatures to be her soldiers.” Elsa would win quickly with these skills alone. Elsa is also willing to venture into the unknown.

Merida has numerous impressive skills that would benefit her. One individual points out, “[Merida would] most likely win the Hunger Games due to her exceptional skills in archery, horseback riding, and her experience with wilderness survival.”

Moreover, her bow and arrow skills are as impressive as Katniss Everdeen's, which are crucial in finding food. She is also independent, fierce, and, as the film title says, brave.

A woman who is brave enough to join the Imperial Army can survive the Hunger Games. Of course, it takes more than courage. But Mulan is an exceptional woman. Someone states, “She is a trained warrior with excellent survival skills.” Mulan is also a keen strategist and highly intelligent.

The heroine of Pirates of the Caribbean, Elizabeth Swann, may not technically be a Disney princess. But she is the daughter of a governor and eventually becomes Pirate King. To survive the Hunger Games, one must have a fierce determination and willingness to go the extra mile but, like Katniss, not lose their humanity. That describes Elizabeth.

One person asserts she is a “Good survivalist, gritty, good with weapons, and full of rage.” The swordsmanship she develops is exceptional, and her ability to inspire a fighting spirit in others could be beneficial in necessary alliances.

The Native American princess and daughter of Chief Powhatan is one of the most courageous Disney princesses. Her fearless attitude, agility, and ability to hide amongst the trees are imperative skills to utilize. Her knowledge of nature would help her recognize poison berries, and she knows how to hunt for food. Pocahontas would do the best in the various natural settings.

Since Disney owns Lucasfilm, we can call the Star Wars heroine a Disney princess. And Princess Leia would fare exceptionally well. She has combat training, can sustain torture, has a high pain tolerance, and has excellent survival skills.

Leia is feisty, tenacious, and independent but has a compassionate heart. Her diplomatic experience is also valuable. Someone elaborates, “She'd have everyone banding together and starting a revolution in about five minutes.” What better way to win than all are joining together as a unit? Leia could inspire such unity.

Since the fairy tale series is produced by Disney and inspired by those films, Emma Swan qualifies. As the daughter of Snow White and Princess Charming, she is royalty. This princess grew up in a harsh reality as an orphan, so she has excellent survival skills and is used to dire conditions.

Emma is also the Savior. Her light magic is very powerful. It allows her to instantly create anything (fire, water, food, etc.), teleport herself out of harm's way, and heal wounds. Her tenacity and good heart make Emma an exemplary contender.

If the games are based near water, Moana would be a strong contestant. Her ability to communicate with the ocean is unique. She is also, as someone proclaims, “a good climber” and “fearless.” Her courage and ubiquitous talents give Moana an excellent chance.

Rapunzel may be innocent and sheltered, but she is also incredibly courageous and willing to embark on unknown territory. One of Rapunzel's greatest assets is her hair. Her 70 feet tresses can be used to climb trees and swing from one to the next. She can use it to keep warm, hunt animals, or tie up enemies. Plus, her weapon of choice is a strong frying pan. Most importantly, her hair has healing powers, making fear of injury non-existent.

The version of Snow White from the 1937 film wouldn't be the strongest contender despite what she endures. But Once Upon a Time's Snow White is different. Before finding a home with the dwarves, she lives in the forest with only her devices for survival. She is an excellent tracker and possesses great bow and arrow skills. Her never-ending compassion and ability to inspire others would also be beneficial. Like Leia, Snow could lead others in a revolution.

Like Moana, Ariel's fearlessness and connection to water would be her most vital assets in the competition. One astute user notes, “She could just hide in the ocean until everyone else defeated each other.” Why partake in the brutality on the surface when she could wait it out underwater with her dinglehoppers and thingamabobs?

Cinderella is one of the gentlest Disney princesses and one with immense strength. Because of the mistreatment from her step-family, Cinderella has experienced a lack of food and cold living conditions. Cinderella can also talk with animals, which could help her in many ways.

There is also the benefit of her Fairy Godmother, the magical being who can help if she needs it. Cinderella may not be the most obvious choice. But no one should ever underestimate the strength of a woman.

READ MORE FROM WEALTH OF GEEKS:

Receiving a perfect score on Rotten Tomatoes is a sought-after accomplishment all directors and filmmakers hope to achieve. But do you ever wonder what happens when a movie is so bad that it totally tanks at the box office?

Perhaps more difficult are those movies so awful they reach a zero on the Tomatometer, meaning no critic liked a single aspect of the film. So instead, they watched each dire moment, waiting for something decent to occur, but it never did.

13 Movies That Achieved a Perfect Zero on Rotten Tomatoes

What TV show started great but ruined its reputation by staying entirely too far past its prime? I can think of a few, but I don't want to spoil the ending.

After being surveyed, the Internet responded with these television series that should have quit while they were ahead.

10 TV Shows That Should Have Quit While They Were Ahead

Someone recently expressed they were searching for movies that exist but aren't a big deal anymore, despite a massive appeal and success initially.

They gave these examples, “Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves. The Bodyguard (two huge Kevin Costner films with enormous hit songs that no one has watched since 1997). The Revenant (Leo gets an Oscar, but can you remember anything besides the bear scene?). Seabiscuit. What else?” Here are the top responses.

10 Surprising Movies That No One Cares About Anymore

Recently someone  online asked, “Who do you consider the most unlikable on the show?” Do you think you know who took the number one spot on the list?

Here are the 10 top-voted responses from the show's fans.

10 Most Hated Characters on The Big Bang Theory

Are you tired of the same well-known films on every 80s movie list? You're not alone.

An online discussion inquires, “What obscure 80s movie did you love that no one else seems to remember?” Here are the top responses.

10 Awesome Obscure 80s Movies No One Seems To Remember

This article was produced and syndicated by Wealth of Geeks.