American SUV manufacturer Jeep has launched two special edition SUVs in India -

Meridian X

and Meridian Upland. Both the new Jeep Meridian special edition variants bring cosmetic changes to the SUV.

The two new special edition Meridians -

X and Upland -

share quite a

few features but also sport upgrades that differentiate them from each other. The current Jeep Meridan lineup in India starts at Rs 32.95 lakhs (ex-showroom).

So what are the features that are shared between the new Jeep Meridian Upland and Meridian X

special edition SUVs? Well, both of these new special edition models are based on the Limited (O) trim level of the Meridian SUV and feature Jeep's 4X4 Selec-Terrain four-wheel-drive system as standard.

Other standard kit shared by the two special edition models include side steps, ambient lighting, new floor mats, the UConnect 5

infotainment system and the panoramic sunroof. Both special edition SUVs add two new colour options to the Meridian lineup -

Silvery Moon and Galaxy Blue.

Additionally, customers can opt to add the rear entertainment package which includes a

wifi-enabled 11.6-inch screen for just half the usual cost.

The Jeep Meridian Upland also gets a

few additional features that help cater to its 'Go Anywhere, Do Anything' theme. These features include a

roof carrier, splash guards, a

specially designed bonnet decal, cargo mats, sunshades, a

tyre inflator and a

boot organizer.

The Jeep Meridian X

is the more style conscious of the two new special edition models. The Meridian X

sports body coloured lowers, a

grey roof and alloy wheels with a

grey pocket as standard. Other features that come as part of the standard equipment list on the Meridian X

include side moulding and puddle lamps.

Mechanically, both the Meridian X

and Meridian Upland remain unchanged compared to the other variants of the SUV. Both the special edition models of the Meridian draw power from a

turbocharged 2.0-litre, four-cylinder diesel engine.

The Meridian's diesel powerplant pushes out 168bhp and 350Nm of peak torque. The engine is paired with either a

6-speed manual or a

9-speed automatic gearbox.

The Jeep Meridian X

and Meridian Upland are two special models that add quite a

bit of kit and some special features for customers looking to stand out from the rest of their Meridian brethren.