A SELF-DESCRIBED "free-range mum" has hit back at trolls who call her "lazy", insisting she's doing the best for her kids.

Mum-of-two Kara took to TikTok to share a video explaining her parenting approach, as she said: "It's basically letting your children learn lessons through their experiences with the world, instead of trying to teach them lessons.

"In other words, my kids - even in the winter - they only want to wear shorts and short-sleeved shirts.

"I'm like, 'Ok, I could argue with them and make them wear weather-appropriate clothes or I can let them go outside and wear the clothes they want to wear and then they get cold and then they put on a jacket.

"So basically letting them do the things that make them feel fulfilled and feel good for their body, obviously within reason.

"I'm still very strict as I'm sure you can imagine."

However, while her explanation earned her praise from many people, others weren't convinced by the parenting style.

"So not parenting, got it," one wrote.

"I run a daycare. If you think this will make them successful humans you need to think again."

"So letting them touch a hot flame instead of telling them no! got it," another added.

"Period. I don’t want to argue with my child so just let them do whatever they want."

"It's just basically lazy parenting," someone else agreed.

"These concepts are ok to an extent. everything in moderation my dear. your kids need to learn that too."

Kara wasn't taking the criticism lightly, as she responded in one comment: "Just so you know, if you have something negative to say, call it lazy parenting, or are bullying, you’ll be held accountable and reported."

"I try not to say negative comments," another wrote.

"If they are going to learn on their own what are you there for?"

With Kara replying: "I guide them and keep them safe.

"I teach them responsibility and to be polite and respectable. It’s not a free for all."

But others were more on board with the approach, with many admitting they'd been "free range parenting" for ages without knowing it was called that.

"So basically free range parenting is not being a helicopter parent," one wrote.

"Ok I'm down with this I guess. That's how I've always raised mine."

"It’s also called choosing your battles," another commented.

"Sometimes you just need to learn the hard way, and sometimes mom will learn things too."

"I call it old school parenting! Gives kids common sense! I’m a free-ranger too!" someone else said.

"Why do people think this is so crazy? I do this with my kiddos and love it!" another asked.

With Kara responding: "Haha bc it makes them uncomfortable."

While someone else questioned: "So letting them do what they want?"

As Kara hit back: "Not. Quite. Haha. I still have lots of things I control."