Besides other instant messaging services, Telegram tops the list for sharing videos with large audiences through Telegram Channels. However, some creators restrict their channels from copying and forwarding the posted video content, making it impossible to download or share with friends. But worry not; this explainer discusses several ways to download restricted a video from a Telegram channel with a few clicks. Additionally, you can learn to download private Twitter videos.

With the recent update, Telegram has introduced the ‘Restrict Content Saving’ feature for channels to enforce content protection for creators. Once enabled, copying and forwarding the content is entirely restricted for a channel member.

While this feature looks convenient, it’s a curse for users who prefer downloading videos from Telegram channels. If you’ve come across such channels and wish to download their videos, we will help you out with these easy methods.

Bots are the heart of Telegram that can help you fulfill any task that struck to your mind. Consequently, you can use them to download videos from a restricted Telegram channel with the bare minimum effort. Here’s what you need to follow:

1. Tap the three-dot menu of the restricted video inside a Telegram Channel to copy its link.

2. Next, tap the Search icon and type Save_Restricted_Content.

3. Join the Telegram Channel and tap on its bot address to access it.

4. Press Start and paste the link of the restricted channel video you copied earlier.

5. Wait a few seconds to get the download link. Once received, tap the three-dot menu on its thumbnail to save it to your phone’s gallery.

Congrats! You’ve successfully downloaded a restricted Telegram channel video using a bot. Note: You might have to repeat the process sometimes, as the bot often gets busy due to high conversion requests.

When you play a video inside Telegram, it gets downloaded and saved to your device’s internal storage. This fact can be utilized to locate and extract the restricted video using free Android file manager apps. Follow these steps to locate the same:

1. Access your desired video in the restricted Telegram channel and tap the Download button to save it inside the app.

2. Now, install the Files app on your Android device.

3. Next, go to the internal storage and tap on Android to access the Data folder.

4. Scroll to the bottom to locate the Telegram package folder and tap on Files.

5. Further, tap on Telegram and navigate to the Telegram Video folder where all the downloaded files are stored.

6. Move down to the bottom to locate the recently downloaded file. Alternatively, you can tap on the video file to identify and watch it.

7. Finally, long-press the file to move it to a different location for easy identification. You can also send it directly to your friend from the Share button.

Use can use a telegram bot to save the video, or use the old-school way. Follow the easy methods in this guide to download videos from any restricted Telegram channel.

Yes, you can use the Save Restricted Content bot on Telegram to download such videos. For more details, refer to the steps above.

To download videos from a public Telegram channel, tap the three-dot menu on the video thumbnail to save it to your phone. If the channel is restricted and doesn’t support downloading, copying, and forwarding links, you can use the above-listed methods to save them.

We hope this guide has helped you to download video content from a restricted Telegram channel. If you find it useful, forward it to your friends and subscribe to GadgetsToUse for more interesting explainers. Meanwhile, you can also check out the links below for more Telegram tips.

You might be interested in:16 Best Privacy Tips for Telegram in 20234 Signs to Check if Someone Blocked You on TelegramHow to Hide Last Seen in Telegram on Phone and DesktopYou can also follow us for instant tech news at Google News or for tips and tricks, smartphones & gadgets reviews, join GadgetsToUse Telegram Group, or for the latest review videos subscribe GadgetsToUse Youtube Channel.