After a thrilling finish to the RBC Heritage, the PGA Tour is set to visit New Orleans for the 2023 Zurich Classic of New Orleans at TPC Louisiana. The tournament is the only team event on the PGA Tour schedule, and features best ball format in the first and third rounds, and alternating shot format in rounds two and four. Defending champions Patrick Cantlay and Xander Schauffele are the 4-1 favorites in the latest Zurich Classic odds from Caesars Sportsbook.

Which 2023 Zurich Classic prop bets should you target? And what sleepers could set you up for a potentially huge payday? Before locking in any Zurich Classic  2023 picks of your own, be sure to check out the PGA predictions and betting advice from SportsLine golf expert Mike McClure.

SportsLine's proprietary model, built by DFS pro Mike McClure, has been red-hot since the PGA Tour resumed in June of 2020. In fact, the model is up over $7,300 on its best bets since the restart, nailing tournament after tournament.

McClure's model predicted Jon Rahm would finish on top of the leaderboard at the 2023 Sentry Tournament of Champions and The American Express. And at the 2023 Masters, the model was all over Rahm's second career major victory heading into the weekend. Rahm was two strokes off the lead heading into the third round, but the model still projected him as the winner.

In addition, the model included J. T. Poston in its best bets to win the 2022 John Deere Classic. That bet hit at +5500, and for the entire tournament, McClure's best bets returned almost $1,100. McClure's best bets included Collin Morikawa winning outright at the 2021 Open Championship, even though he was listed as a massive 40-1 longshot.

This same model has also nailed a whopping nine majors entering the weekend. Anyone who has followed it has seen massive returns.

Now, McClure has set his sights on the 2023 Zurich Classic field and just revealed his top PGA prop bets. You can head to SportsLine now to see all of McClure's 2023 Zurich Classic prop picks, sleepers, head-to-head matchups, and best bets.

One of McClure's favorite prop bet picks this week at the Zurich Classic 2023 is the team of Max Homa and Collin Morikawa beating Patrick Cantlay and Xander Schauffele in head-to-head golf betting at +140 odds (risk $100 to win $140). Homa and Morikawa are both proven winners on the PGA Tour. Homa has five top-10 finishes with one outright win, while Morikawa has four top-10's in 2023.

Both players are elite in several key metrics, and their close personal friendship gives them a distinct advantage over the rest of the Zurich Classic field. As such, McClure sees huge value in taking Homa and Morikawa at plus money odds. You can see the rest of McClure's Zurich Classic prop bet picks at SportsLine.

McClure has also locked in a slew of other prop bets for the the Zurich Classic 2023, including a long shot listed at 45-1 to win it all. Anyone who backs one of his 2023 Zurich Classic sleepers could hit it big. You can only see his Zurich Classic best bets at SportsLine.

So what 2023 Zurich Classic prop picks should you target this week? And which massive long shot has a chance to stun the golfing world? Visit SportsLine to see McClure's 2023 Zurich Classic best bets, all from the expert who's up over $9,600 since the PGA Tour restart, and find out.

See the full Zurich Classic 2023 picks, best bets, and predictions here.