Official Award Winner for Best New Musical 2023, ‘La Maupin’ takes to the Stage again for Brighton Fringe Festival 2023! La Maupin, the folk musical about the queer 17th-century opera singer and swordswoman, Julie d’Aubigny, is back once again for a rollicking good time.

Produced by Rory Devlin (he/him), the musical features original music & lyrics by Olivia Thompson (she/her) and is directed by Suzy Catliff (she/her). La Maupin promises to be a thrilling and entertaining experience for audiences of all backgrounds!

“I’m so delighted to be able to bring this show to stage again,” says producer Rory Devlin. “It’s a wonderful chance to present a piece of LGBTQ+ theatre that just ticks all the boxes for a good night out.”

Performed by an ensemble of actor-musicians, La Maupin, tells the story of Julie d’Aubigny, the historical figure who became a sensation in the Parisian opera scene for her stunning vocal performances, queer dalliances and daring sword fighting skills.

The role of Julie d’Aubigny will be played by actor-musician Frida Rodbroe (they/them) alongside the rest of the cast Katrina Michaels (she/her), Megan Armitage (she/her), Olivia Warren (she/her) and writer Olivia Thompson (she/her), all of whom will be taking on multiple roles while playing several instruments too.

“Julie was a queer figure ahead of her time,” Olivia Thompson says. “She defied social norms, challenged gender roles, and lived life on her own terms. It’s an honor to bring her story to life in this exciting musical.”

La Maupin is set to play the Actors Theatre on May 12th and 14th as part of the Brighton Fringe Festival 2023. Tickets are on sale now and can be purchased at the fringe box office online at www.brightonfringe.org/events/la-maupin

La Maupin was originally presented by The Lion & Unicorn Theatre & Fantastic Garlands Theatre Company in November 2022.

For more information or to schedule an interview with the production team, please contact Rory Devlin at fantasticgarlandstheatre@gmail.com

Winner of the Off West End Award (Offies) for Best New Musical 2023.