Regent Phu Quoc, IHG Hotels & Resorts’ sparkling jewel on Vietnam’s “Pearl Island,” has revealed details of its inaugural Regent Taste Studio, a one-of-a-kind, interactive dining experience that brings together leading local talent from the worlds of art, design, fashion and gastronomy in a four-night creative showcase.

Scheduled to run from 19th to 22nd April 2023 – to coincide with the resort’s first anniversary – this multi-sensory dining journey will pay homage to the beautiful island of Phu Quoc. Titled “The Dialogue Between the Land, the Sea and its People,” this unique event will take the form of a theatrical play divided into seven chapters, presented by Regent Phu Quoc’s culinary masters, musicians from Ho Chi Minh City Conservatory of Music, local pearl artisans and Vietnamese fashion designer Devon Nguyen.

“By blending our resort’s creative gastronomy with Vietnam’s music, art and design, the Regent Taste Studio will be a truly original dining experience. We are honoured to be hosting the world’s first on-property Regent Taste Studio, which represents how Regent Phu Quoc is successfully elevating the standard of hospitality not only in Vietnam, but around the world. We look forward to welcoming our discerning guests, globetrotters and tastemakers to step into this immersive world of culinary and cultural excellence,” said Mr. Sriram Kailasam, General Manager, Regent Phu Quoc.

Following the official debut of the Regent Taste Studio in Vietnam, this original concept will traverse the globe with pop-up activations across Australia, the UK, France, Singapore and USA.

The Regent Taste Studio is priced at VND 28,888,000++ for two guests, including a one-night stay at Regent Phu Quoc. This highly exclusive event is limited to only 20 guests per day.

For more information and advanced reservations, please contact (+84) 297 388 0000 or regent.phuquoc@ihg.com.

A graduate of University of The Arts London, Devon Nguyen spent many years living in Europe, her multicultural background developed a love for fashion design and fine arts. With over 10 years in the fashion industry, Devon has a portfolio of many achievements under her belt. Not only known for fashion shows in London – Paris – Vietnam, Devon Nguyen is also known as a Creative Director for many domestic and foreign brands. As the art world becomes more and more enamoured with contemporary culture, Devon Nguyen reinvented herself as a modern abstract painter. Bringing multicultural aesthetic style, harmoniously blending modern – classical, and elegant – out of the way. She does not hesitate to combine various drawing techniques from oil paint, acrylic, sculpture, to create diverse works which inspire her and others.