After a rough Rams debut, Robinson received permission to speak with teams about a trade. The Steelers, who have enjoyed extensive modern-era success in developing wide receivers, are in position to add the former Jaguars and Bears No. 1 wideout. Robinson is going into his age-30 season. Considering Robinson’s contract (three years, $46.5M) and 2022 performance, it is unlikely the Steelers will give up much in trade compensation.

Not only did Robinson struggle last season, but the 220-pound wideout also finished the year as one of the many Rams starters on the shelf. He underwent foot surgery late last year. In 10 games, Robinson caught 33 passes for 339 yards and three touchdowns. That performance actually topped his 2021 work on a Bears franchise tag; Robinson managed just 38 grabs for 410 yards and one score in 12 games that year. The Rams made a bet on Robinson bouncing back, guaranteeing him $30M via last year’s free agency accord. The move did not pay off.

The Steelers moved on from Chase Claypool at the deadline last year, acquiring what became the No. 32 overall pick from the Bears. Robinson is in position to join Diontae Johnson and George Pickens as Pittsburgh’s top wideouts. This move is a bit out of character for the Steelers, who have continually developed wideouts after Day 2 draft investments. Robinson is a former second-round pick, but the Jaguars made that selection in 2014.

Robinson’s last strong season came in 2020 when he helped the Bears to the playoffs as the top target on a team without much pass-catching depth. The 6-foot-2 receiver snagged a career-high 100 passes — from QBs Mitch Trubisky and Nick Foles — and totaled 1,250 yards. Robinson, who is close to reuniting with Trubisky (under contract as Kenny Pickett‘s backup), topped that yardage total just once — via a 1,400-yard year with the 2015 Jags. That season led the Bears to tag Robinson, after contentious extension talks, but he has not closely resembled his 2020 version since.

Both Von Miller‘s Bills defection and Odell Beckham Jr.‘s ACL tear led the Rams to Robinson last year — after the Eagles were in pursuit — but he is close to joining OBJ in the AFC North. The Rams still roster Van Jefferson as a Cooper Kupp sidekick, though former second-round pick Tutu Atwell has not done much to distinguish himself as a pro. Ben Skowronek also remains on Los Angeles’ roster. The Rams, who have prioritized cost-cutting moves this offseason, have not made a notable addition at the position this year.