Most people think that the majority of plastic they put in their blue boxes is being recycled and repurposed. Wrong. 95% of it is headed for landfills, oceans, waterways, incineration (causing toxic air pollution) and sold to other countries that try to hide it. Eventually it ends up in our soil, crops, food and drinking water.

A new report by Greenpeace revealed that the amount of plastic that is actually repurposed into new things has fallen from 9% to only 5%. That number will drop further as more plastic is being produced.

The plastic industry is the third largest manufacturing industry in the U. S.; the booming oil and gas industry and car manufacturing are first and second. Sadly, all three of these detrimental industries are keeping our volatile economy on life support even though they are harmful to our health and the environment. So at what point do we put our quality of life ahead of the economy?

Plastic pollution alters habitats and natural processes, reducing ecosystems ability to adapt to climate change, directly affecting millions of people’s livelihoods, food production and drinking water. Plastics are produced from the by-products of natural gas and crude oil refining, so a subsidy for fossil fuels is a subsidy for plastics. Like fossil fuels, the current boom in plastics consumption is primarily driven by growth in emerging markets.

The most common plastic items washed up on beaches are plastic bottles, food wrappings, take-out containers, cutlery, toothbrushes, dental picks, straws, cups and bags. All of these plastic items could be made from other materials--stainless steel (bottles, straws), hemp (food wraps), cardboard (take-out food containers, cups, plates, bowls), wood (cutlery), bamboo (toothbrushes and dental picks), cloth and paper (bags).

So where are the companies that actually “Repurpose” plastic? They are difficult to find.

These are the companies that I found on the internet:

2. Patagonia’s Plastic Jackets (Recycle polyester--which comes from plastic. 84% of their fabrics are recycled plastics).

3. Fab Habitat’s Plastic Rugs (To date, this company has rescued and recycled millions of plastic bottles from landfills).

4. Shini U. S.A. Plastic Construction Material (The future of construction is in eco-friendly, building materials that use recycled plastic).

6. Preserve’s Toothbrush Recycling (Made from 100% recycled plastic; they run a program that asks consumers to collect five toothbrushes in a plastic bottle, send them in and get a $6 coupon that can be used to buy a recycled toothbrush).

8. Suga Recycled Wetsuits (Collects old discarded wetsuits and recycles them into super-soft wetsuits and yoga mats)

9.  Method Cleaning Products (Uses curbside collected plastics to create their large range of cleaning materials)

10. Green Toys (Creates imaginative toys using milk jugs. They’ve recycled over 114,000,000 jugs to date)

These trailblazing companies are turning something harmful into something helpful. However, repurposing recycled plastics still only accounts for 5% of plastic waste.

So why aren’t we repurposing more plastic waste? According to Just Zero, most plastic was never designed to be recyclable and if it can be, it’s an expensive process. The only solution to the plastic problem is to stop producing it, stop buying it, or buy biodegradable materials instead. We won’t recycle our way out of the plastic pollution crisis; we need a systemic transformation to achieve the transition to a circular economy (re-use products rather than scrap them).

Most importantly, we need to hold plastic polluters (corporations) accountable, charge them higher taxes that can be used for eco-friendly products, legislate that they have to stop producing single-use plastic, or send them back their own plastic and tell them to “repurpose” it.

Tricia Clarkson is a climate change columnist and co-chair for Peterborough Alliance for Climate Action