Journalist Aura Bogado posted a two-minute excerpt of the conversation (featuring NSFW language) on Twitter. HuffPost has reached out to Choe and Netflix for comment, but did not immediately receive a response.

“I just take her hand and I put it on my dick, and she just holds it there,” Choe says in the short clip available online. He says the massage therapist went along with his action but didn’t seem enthusiastic about it.

Choe then says he asked the masseuse to pleasure him, and that she began manually stimulating him but he found it unsatisfying. He says he asked the woman to spit on his penis and kiss it, and that she refused.

“I take the back of her head and I push it down on my dick, and she doesn’t do it, and then I go, ‘Open your mouth, open your mouth,’ and she does it,” Choe says. “And then I start face-fucking her.”

After the podcast aired and drew widespread criticism, Choe said he was telling a fictional story, and that the events he described never actually happened.

The “DVDASA” clip has caused many on Twitter to question why Choe was cast in the buzzy Netflix series, which also uses Choe’s art for its title sequence.

After Bogado tweeted the clip on Thursday, it was taken off the platform “in response to a report from the copyright holder,” per Twitter.

Bogado later tweeted that Choe “wrote to Twitter to get the video I posted of him talking about the woman he says he raped taken down on copyright grounds.”

Choe’s story was widely reported on in 2014, garnering immediate outrage. In a statement shared by BuzzFeed News at the time, Choe claimed that the story was a fabrication and “not a representation of [his] reality.”

“I am not a rapist. I hate rapists, I think rapists should be raped and murdered,” Choe wrote at the time. “I am an artist and a storyteller and I view my show DVDASA as a complete extension of my art.”

He reportedly went on: “With the rape stuff... I mean, I would have been in a lot of trouble right now if I put her hand on my dick and she’s like, ‘Fucking stop, I’m gonna go call security.’ That would have been a much different story. But the thrill of possibly going to jail, that’s what achieved the erection quest.”