The fight against Chinese-owned TikTok continues to heat up. Legislators in Montana voted Friday to ban the hugely popular short-form video app from operating in the state.

The bill, called SB 419, would prevent app stores like Google Play and Apple’s App Store from listing TikTok for download in Montana, Reuters reports(Opens in a new window). The Montana House of Representatives voted 54-43 to approve the ban which, if signed into law by Montana Governor Greg Gianforte, would enforce fines on violating app stores.

A spokesperson for Republican governor's office told Reuters: “The governor will carefully consider any bill the legislature sends to his desk.” As Engadget notes(Opens in a new window), it’s looking likely he’ll approve it; Gianforte has already banned TikTok from state-owned devices. Even if it is approved, however, it won’t go into effect in 2024 and this is before it will be hit with widely expected legal challenges citing the First Amendment.

TikTok, which did not immediately respond to PCMag’s request for comment, told Reuters: “We will continue to fight for TikTok users and creators in Montana whose livelihoods and First Amendment rights are threatened by this egregious government overreach.”

TikTok has come under extensive scrutiny from US legislators in recent months because of claims that its Chinese owner, ByteDance, puts US users' personal data at risk. Lawmakers at both a federal and state level have argued that American data could be shared with the Chinese government. TikTok CEO Shou Zi Chew was grilled last month by a congressional committee on those widely held concerns.

The short-form video app has repeatedly denied these accusations and in a move to gain standing among US legislators, TikTok injected more than $1 billion into creating a means for American user data to be exclusively stored(Opens in a new window) on servers run by US tech company Oracle.

Get Our Best Stories!

Sign up for What's New Now to get our top stories delivered to your inbox every morning.

This newsletter may contain advertising, deals, or affiliate links. Subscribing to a newsletter indicates your consent to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe from the newsletters at any time.

Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox!

Sign up for other newsletters