The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has declared as null and void, the suspension of Senator George Thompson Sekibo and Hon. (Dr.) Aus­tin Opara from the party in Rivers State.

The PDP National Working Committee (NWC) therefore charged its leaders, critical stakeholders, mem­bers, teeming supporters in Rivers State and the gener­al public to disregard the purported suspension of the duo.

In a state­ment by its spokesman, Hon. Debo Ologunagba, the PDP said, “The attention of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has been drawn to the purported suspension of Senator (Dr.) George Thompson Sekibo and Rt. Hon. (Dr.) Austin Adiele Opara from the party, re­portedly by the ward exec­utives of ward 2 of Ogu/ Bolo Local Government Area and ward 10 of Port Harcourt City Local Gov­ernment Area of Rivers State, respectively.

“The NWC, after a thor­ough consideration of the petitions by Senator Sekibo and Rt. Hon. Austin Opara dated April 17, 2023 against the purported suspension, hereby declares the action by the said ward executives which borders on issues of discipline, as null and void and of no effect, not being consistent with the provi­sions of the constitution of the PDP (as amended in 2017).

“For clarity, section 57 (7) provides that ‘Notwith­standing any other provi­sion relating to discipline, no Executive Committee, at any level except the Nation­al Executive Committee, shall entertain any ques­tion of discipline as may relate or concern a member of the National Executive Committee, Deputy Gov­ernor or member of the National Assembly.’

“The NWC, therefore, charges all leaders, criti­cal stakeholders, members, teeming supporters of our party in Rivers State and the general public to disre­gard the purported suspen­sion of Senator Dr. George Thompson Sekibo and Rt. Hon. Dr. Austin Adiele Opara.

“The NWC enjoins all party members in Rivers State to remain united and continue to work together in the overall interest of our party and the nation.

“The NWC is steadily progressing in our rec­onciliation efforts among all members of our party across the country and we are encouraged by the suc­cess so far achieved.”