Nandish Sandhu, the popular television actor who rose to fame with his role in the hit show Uttaran, has made his mark in the world of OTT platforms. The actor, who has been a household name for years, recently spoke about his journey from television to OTT and how he has embraced the change in an exclusive chat with Bollywood Hungama. While speaking of his latest project, Jubilee, an Amazon Prime Video series, Nandish shed some light on his transition.

EXCLUSIVE: Jubilee actor Nandish Sandhu calls his experience in TV “a highly paid learning playground”; lauds OTT for giving “immense opportunities”

We asked Nandish if his experience of working in the television industry helped him in his transition. In his response, he asserted, “My experience in television definitely helped me. And that has been the basis of my acting learning. How to behave on the set, what goes around on the set, and what happens behind the scenes? How does an actor prepare the kind of stories that you hear on the set from your senior actors? It's a highly paid learning playground where you can learn, have fun, enjoy, and at the same time, get paid for it.”

The Andekhi actor continued and explained, “From school time I've been, I've always been very bad at mugging up things. And I've always been the kind of person who would go into the lab and learn while doing it. So practical on-the-job training has always been my way of learning and television gave it to me, hands down.”

Speaking further about his journey, Nandish said, “I feel my switch from television to film and then to OTT is happening beautifully and I'm very happy about the way things are going because my debut film (Super 30) was directed by Vikas Bahl featuring Hrithik Roshan. Then Family of Thakurganj happened. When I got my first opportunity to work on OTT, it was with a big show.  Although it was a special appearance in Grahan, it was a good start.”

He further added, “I was very happy because by the time I started shooting for Grahan. I had already signed Andekhi and then Jubilee.  So things are going well and I'm happy with the kind of directors and teams that I'm getting to work with. The stories are nice and the characters are different. They're poles apart. And Jubilee has just taken the cake because it's from a different era altogether. So yeah, pretty happy with the way things are going and things are shaping up for the future as well.”

For the unversed, Nandish plays the love interest of Aditi Rao Hydari in the Vikramaditya Mowane directorial Jubilee. Theb series is exclusively streaming on Amazon Prime Video. Besides Nandish and Aditi, the ensemble star cast also includes Prosenjit Chatterjee, Aparshakti Khurana, Wamiqa Gabbi, Sidhant Gupta, and Ram Kapoor.

Also Read: Karan Johar heaps praise on Jubilee breakout star Sidhant Gupta as he reviews Vikramaditya Motwane-directed series: ‘An ACTOR is here to stay and conquer’

Catch us for latest Bollywood News, New Bollywood Movies update, Box office collection, New Movies Release , Bollywood News Hindi, Entertainment News, Bollywood Live News Today & Upcoming Movies 2023 and stay updated with latest hindi movies only on Bollywood Hungama.