Unexpectedly, there has been a slight easing in the UK jobs market with more people returning, leading to an increase in unemployment from 3.7% to 3.8%. (Photo by JUSTIN TALLIS / AFP) (AFP)

The average earnings in the UK unexpectedly rose 6.6% in the three months to February, higher than the 6.2% predicted, causing concerns about inflationary pressures and possible interest rate hikes.

The UK’s average earnings, excluding bonuses, increased unexpectedly by 6.6% in the three months through February 2023 compared to the same period last year, according to the Office for National Statistics. The reading is higher than the 6.2% growth rate economists had predicted and has led to concerns about inflationary pressures in the country.

The Bank of England (BOE) is expected to keep a close eye on the situation as it prepares to release a report on consumer prices tomorrow. BOE Governor, Andrew Bailey, and his policy-making team had hoped for a cooling of pay growth and inflation.

Goldman Sachs, which had predicted no change in interest rates through next year, now expects a 25 basis-point hike in May. Similarly, Bloomberg Economics anticipates a rise to 4.5% next month. Investors are already expecting at least 50 basis points of tightening by September following the unexpected surge in wages.                        Also Read: Rishi Sunak plans to make maths education until 18 compulsory, cites ‘anti-maths mindset’ costing UK economyThe jobs market shows some signs of loosening as more people returned to the market, resulting in an unexpected rise in unemployment from 3.7% to 3.8%. However, a key wage metric watched by the BOE, annualised private-sector wage growth, is still above 5%, a level economists say is inconsistent with the BOE's 2% inflation target.                           James Smith at ING Developed Markets believes that “a similar blowout in services inflation tomorrow would probably be enough to lock in another 25bp rate hike next month". Meanwhile, Stuart Cole at Equiti Capital suggests that the data “do nothing to assuage concerns on the MPC about the threat of a wages/price spiral," and that the information "should be enough to seal another hike in interest rates" in May.                      Also Read: Rishi Sunak’s plan to cut inheritance tax could be a masterstroke; here’s whyThe two-year gilt yield was up 5 basis points at 3.66% as of 1 p.m. London time, while the pound advanced 0.6% to $1.2446.                           Tomorrow’s report on consumer prices will be crucial in determining whether the BOE will need to continue with its most aggressive series of rate rises in four decades. The CPI result is expected to show the first reading below double digits in seven months, but a strong services inflation reading could lead to another rate hike.

Sounak Mukhopadhyay

Sounak Mukhopadhyay, who also goes by the name Sounak Mukherjee, has been producing digital news since 2012. He's worked for the International Business Times, The Inquisitr, and Moneycontrol in the past. He's also contributed to Free Press Journal and TheRichest with feature articles. He covers news for a wide range of subjects including business, finance, economy, politics and social media. Before working with digital news publications, he worked as a freelance content writer.

Read more from this author

Catch all the Business News, Market News, Breaking News Events and Latest News Updates on Live Mint.

Download The Mint News App to get Daily Market Updates.

More

Less