THE Wanted star Max George breaks down in tears and opens up about drinking three bottles of wine a night on tonight's Scared Of The Dark.

Max, 34, revealed he's quit alcohol - after years of boozing on tour began to affect his liver.

The pop star said he used booze to help him "adapt" to life in the spotlight and admitted he drank three bottles of wine when he was at his "lowest ever point".

"It was well weird doing that last tour because I’ve never done a tour without being absolutely leathered the whole time," he tells his fellow co-stars tonight.

"I would always be pissed before we performed. I struggled to adapt so I used to drink to make myself feel like it didn’t bother me.

"It’s quite hard sometimes to differentiate between the anxiety and depression but mine was certainly more the anxiety side which started when the boys got to number one with All Time Low.

"Where I felt like I should be on an absolute high, I felt quite low.

"I felt really ungrateful because I should have felt the best I’d ever felt in my life, but I didn’t."

He continued: "When I was drunk I was more confident thinking, 'This is great', the more we worked, the more I drank.

"And then it became that we were working 360 days a year.

"My biggest mistake was bottling up emotion if I was hurt.

"I did that for a long time and probably covered it up with other things.

"My birthday two years ago, I had then pints and three bottles of red wine as well. I was ill for a week.

"The doctor looked at my liver and said my liver count was pretty low, I’m not messing with my liver. So I stopped."

The singer - who lost his best friend and bandmate Tom Parker to a brain tumour in March last year - said there were a few reasons why he wanted to give up alcohol.

"Now I don’t drink, it’s been two years," he said.

"There where other reasons, I found out about Tom  - he had glioblastoma, which is brain cancer, it was stage four when they found it.

"I was shooting a movie, it was the last day of filming and my phone rang and it was Kelsey. I thought that’s a nice surprise. But obviously it wasn’t.

"I couldn’t get my head around what she told me and I don’t think I accepted that."

Max said he was touched by the support he received from people they didn't know.

"Do you know what was lovely, people from outside our group and friends, even they chipped in to help. Ed Sheeran did as well. That saved Tom’s life for a year," he continued.

"How do you deal with it? There’s no cure for that so you just sort of learn to carry on with your life.  Deal with it? Definitely not.

"I don’t think I’ll ever be OK with it.

"One of the last things I said to him was I thanked him for making my life so much better than it ever could have been.

"That whole journey through being in the band, he was my best friend."

The singer then breaks down in tears as he is comforted by football legend Gazza.

He adds: "F***, I just don’t want it to be a burden on anyone else because it’s hard in there.

"My head hasn’t stopped since we spoke about it. I haven’t let go, you know what I mean?

"This place has broken me down to talk about stuff I haven’t even told my own family about.

"It’s brought a lot to the surface and I can’t stop thinking about him now. I’m not sure I’m dealing with that very well at the minute. I’m not coming to terms with it."