Skip to main content

What are you looking for?

Established in 1951, IOM is the leading inter-governmental organization in the field of migration and works closely with governmental, intergovernmental and non-governmental partners. The International Organization for Migration (IOM) is committed to the principle that humane and orderly migration benefits migrants and society. As the leading international organization for migration, IOM acts with its partners in the international community to: assist in meeting the growing operational challenges of migration management; advance understanding of migration issues; encourage social and economic development through migration, and; uphold the human dignity and well-being of migrants.

As part of its support to the Government of Belgium, IOM assists with the establishment and management of accommodation centres for persons seeking international protection in Belgium. This support spans from the establishment of accommodation centres where needed to the day-to-day operations of the centre.

Under the direct supervision of the Centre Management Assistant, the Reception and Movements Clerk will be, inter-alia, responsible for:

Assisting with the reception of beneficiaries in the accommodation centre;

Facilitating beneficiaries’ movements in a safe manner across centres, medical institutions and/or any other institution that may be necessary to comply with the project needs;

Assuring the delivery of reports and fulfilment of tasks required by the Centre Manager;

Assisting with interpretation for effective communication between IOM staff and Beneficiaries;

Ensure the update of the database and carry out the registration process in the Centre in compliance with IOM Data Principles;

Facilitating communication, through interpretation and / or translation, in a spoken or written language understood by each beneficiary, between the beneficiaries of the facility and the staff employed, in order to ensure that beneficiaries understand all activities which are being developed, satisfying their demands and meeting their needs;

Providing information to the staff in order to assist the latter in comprehending the perceptions of the beneficiaries and acting as a cultural mediator during the adjustment period to their new environment;

Translating information materials to be disseminated to participants;

Performing other duties as required for the successful implementation of the project.

High School diploma with at least 3 years of related professional experience

Degree in social science, humanities or relevant area would be considered as an asset.

3 years of progressive experience in a similar function would be considered as an asset;

Experience working in international organizations, non-government or government institutions/organization in a multi-cultural setting is an advantage;

Demonstrated ability to work well under pressure and to keep deadlines;

Fluency in English and French/Dutch (oral and written).

Working knowledge of Arabic, Farsi and/or Pashto is an advantage.

Any offer made to the candidate is subject to funding confirmation.

Appointment will be subject to certification that the candidate is medically fit for appointment and verification of residency, visa and authorizations by the concerned Government, where applicable. As part of the mandatory medical entry on duty clearance, candidates will be requested to provide evidence of vaccination against COVID-19.

This post is subject to local recruitment. Only persons holding a valid residence and work permit for Belgium will be eligible for consideration.

Interested candidates are invited to submit their applications to IOMBrusselsApplications@iom.int by 25 April 2023 23:59 (Brussels time), referring to this advertisement in the subject line (CFCV 2023-18 Reception and Movements Clerk) and including the following documents:

In order for an application to be considered valid, IOM only accepts applications duly completed. IOM reserves the right to contact shortlisted candidates only.