Every state should now have at least one EV charging station from Gentari

This is surprising as Gentari is part of Petronas and there is a huge Petronas facility in Terengganu which means there is a lot of contractor ‘money’ and business being conducted in the state.

So, this also means that the ‘promotion’ of clean energy motoring should be heavily promoted in and around the Petronas Refinery and chemical plant in Kertih, Terengganu, right?

Right now, Gentari has a charging station, just one, in Kota Bahru Kelantan which is well known for being the hometown for many Malaysian multi millionaires, who live most of the year in Taman Tun, Mont Kiara and Damansara Heights.

So, having a charging station at the well known Perdana Hotel in the heart of Kota Bahru shows the importance of providing an EV charging point for these high net worth individuals if and when they want to drive their shiny new tax free luxury electric vehicles to visit their favorite business and breakfast location (Perdana Hotel) in their hometown.

Meanwhile, at two Petronas stations along the Gambang Highway in Pahang allows for these luxury EV owners heading directly to Kota Bahru (and avoiding Kuantan, Pekan, Chukai and Kertih) to easily get a fast DC battery charge if needed.

Meanwhile, it seems that Kuantan town does not have a Gentari EV charging point (whilst there are many Petronas stations with large forecourts) which shows the importance of providing EV charging for a selected group right now.

Furthermore, along the coastal road from Pekan to Kota Bahru is where majority of Malaysian ‘driving’ tourists will be driving as they visit the many seaside resorts and also lovely diving spots at the off-shore islands.

Having Gentari charging stations along this coastal road should be a priority as the increased number of Volvo C40, BYD Atto3 and Ora Good Cat electric vehicle owners on the West Coast Malaysia would want to be able to drive their shiny tax free electric vehicles over the long weekend and school holidays to visit the many 5-star beachside resorts in Pahang and Terengganu.

So, we hope this above information gets noticed by the planners at Gentari and action is taken as soon as possible to provide EV charging points in Kuantan, Chukai and also Kertih.

Daniel Sherman Fernandez www.dsf.my is a service to the public and other website owners. www.dsf.my is not responsible for, and expressly disclaims all liability for, damages of any kind arising out of use, reference to, or reliance on any information contained within the site www.dsf.my. While the information contained within the site is periodically updated, no guarantee is given that the information provided in this website is correct, complete, and up-to-date. www.dsf.my is not responsible for the accuracy or content of information contained inside.