Britons can buy this two-bedroom County Durham property for just £5K

Spotify down updates — Users say app is 'not loading' and report issues worldwide | The Sun

Using fabric conditioner at ‘incorrect’ time makes it ‘ineffective’

Players slam ‘broken’ award-winning game on Xbox – warning not to buy | The Sun

Rare classic Mk2 Ford Escort rally car up for auction at eye-watering price | The Sun

Pokémon players receive another powerful raid – a second chance to catch exclusive ‘mons | The Sun

Teenager reduces supermarket bill from £524 to £50 via coupons

POLL: Do you support UK shifting to a cashless society?

Players slam ‘broken’ award-winning game on Xbox – warning not to buy | The Sun

AFTER a year of being a PS5 exclusive Xbox players were excited to get their hands on this award-winning game.

However, bugs have ruined their experience as the game is considered broken on the consoles.

Ghostwire: Tokyo is now available on Xbox Series X|S, but fans have been warned not to purchase it.

Not only does the Xbox version have all the issues that were present on the PS5 version, but many more have been added.

According to Digital Foundry, Ghostwire: Tokyo looks visually similar on Xbox to the PS5 version.

However, performance has taken a significant hit, with bugs that make the ray tracing and lighting look wrong.

Xbox gamer receives free subscription for LIFE – and why they turned it down

Xbox gamers will receive even MORE indie-credible games

The game’s quality mode is the only one that can hit a consistent frame rate which is locked at 30fps.

Performance mode aims for 60fps, but it rarely succeeds at this, and can get as low as 45fps in combat sections.

Predictably, the Xbox Series S struggles the most to run Ghostwire: Tokyo and has significant issues with frame pacing.

The issues surprised players as developer Tango Gameworks is owned by Microsoft.

Nintendo hacker could be paying off fine for the rest of his life

Fan-favourite feature MISSING from Hogwarts Legacy – released in new spin-off

Thousands of Steam users restricted for voting on a review

Tango’s most recent release Hi-Fi Rush is an Xbox exclusive game that runs perfectly on both Xbox Series X and S consoles.

While it is a lot less intensive than Ghostwire: Tokyo, players expected the good performance from the Xbox owned studio.

There has been no public comment on the performance issues, or whether a patch will be released to improve the game.

However, a year after its initial release, the PS5 version still has performance problems.

This suggests that the Xbox version is also unlikely to be patched.

Written by Oliver Brandt and Georgina Young on behalf of GLHF.

All the latest Gaming tips and tricks

Looking for tips and tricks across your favourite consoles and games? We have you covered…

All the video game releases in 2022

Can you play PS4 games on PS5?

All of the Call of Duty games in order

All the GTA 5 mods and cheats

What are the Pokemon Go Eevee Evolutions?

Everything you need to know about Roblox

How to get free Robux

Who is the highest-paid Twitch streamer?

Get all of the latest PS5, Xbox and other video game news here

Oklahoma Gov. Kevin Stitt speaking to reporters in Tulsa in September 2020. Photo: Jabin Botsford/The Washington Post via Getty Images...

Spotify down updates — Users say app is 'not loading' and report issues worldwide | The Sun

Players slam ‘broken’ award-winning game on Xbox – warning not to buy | The Sun

Pokémon players receive another powerful raid – a second chance to catch exclusive ‘mons | The Sun

Ministers have issued an update on who is eligible for the Warm Home Discount after people on PIP and DLA...

Teenager reduces supermarket bill from £524 to £50 via coupons

POLL: Do you support UK shifting to a cashless society?

Five tips to boost your pension savings for early retirement

We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.