Latest News

Latest News

Per Region

AfricaDoes prize money for Esports fall under the Gambling Act?Better Collective Enters into Media Partnership with PUNCH Nigeria Limited

AsiaSTAR SYMPHONY – THE NEW FRONTIER OF RHYTHM GAMESVietnam: 300 State Websites Have Gambling Links Attached to ThemIESF and Gamers8 partner to convene the Asian esports world togetherQuezon Province Now More Calamity-Ready with the Opening of PAGCor-Funded Emergency Shelters in Two Towns

AustraliaMotorsport Australia Announces the Launch of its Official Esports WebsiteStar CEO Announces Resignation After Eight Months into Role

Americas

CanadaBig News For Canadian Bettors: Betano Is Finally Licensed in OntarioWhat You Need To Know About iGaming & Gambling In CanadaReviews of Canada’s Best Casinos on the New Casino Zeus WebsiteThe 5 Most played Slots In Canadian online casinos

Latin AmericaIGT to Showcase its Products at SAGSE LatAm in Buenos Aires

USAThe Cordish Companies Unveils Plans for New Live! Casino & Hotel Resort Destination in Louisiana

South AmericaSIS agrees deal for its Competitive Gaming esports product with RETAbet for Spain and LatAmPragmatic Play Goes Live with Pálpitos in Tucumán, ArgentinaBrazil is not friendly to ‘amateurs’ warns Online IPS partner Witoldo Hendrich Junior ahead of attendance at ICE LondonBetcris Gold sponsor of the 1st Aliadas Congress in Colombia

Europe

Balkan’sA New Portion of CT Interactive Games Certified for Serbia and MontenegroCT Interactive’s 18 new games certified for the Bulgarian market

BalticsShortlisted Companies Announced for BSG Awards and BTECH Awards (Riga, Latvia – 16-17 May)

Central EuropeTwenty Years of Supporting the Games Industry in HamburgCT Interactive’s portfolio is currently live at GrandwinFirst German Lottery to include Fennica Gaming’s cloud-based eInstant GaaS (Games as a Service) in their game portfolio

Eastern EuropeBETER Live cuts ribbon on two new studios in RomaniaWazdan set to scale up its global footprint following the Reevo dealCT Gaming’s Next Slot Cabinet Makes its Launch at Max Bet’s Halls in Bucharest

Mediterranean EuropeEGT’s G 50-50 C VIP Model Makes Northern Cyprus Debut at Concorde Nicosia and Bafra Casinos

ScandinaviaMore figures for the Danish gambling market every monthThe Danish Gambling Authority becomes secretariat for national platform to combat match-fixing

Southeastern EuropeFrom strength to strength, Ivo Doroteia, CEO of Sportingtech, looks at the growing prominence of Portugal’s betting marketScientific Games Named Best Betting and Gaming Employer in GreeceOPAP strengthens its position in online sports-betting in Greece through the acquisition of Stoiximan Group’s Greek and Cypriot business

Western EuropeCasino Guru teams up with City, University of London to research and recommend best practice for self-exclusion standards

RussiaPin Projekt partners with Parimatch to deliver lottery games to CIS regionParimatch Completes the Franchise Withdrawal from Russia on Legal and Technical Levels

Compliance UpdatesBMM Testlabs Singapore Announces Promotion of Vineet Malhotra to Vice President of Technical Services and Compliance, Asia

Press ReleasesBetbazar partners with Turbo Stars to propel provider to new heights

InterviewsExclusive interview with Henri Mirande, CTO and Co-founder of Kinetix

Trending

Conferences in EuropeCasinoBeats Summit 2023: SBC goes around the world with its ‘Global Casino’ conference trackShortlisted Companies Announced for BSG Awards and BTECH Awards (Riga, Latvia – 16-17 May)

CryptocurrencyHow Gamers are Putting the Future of Fun Front and CenterBitcoin betting: Use your crypto tokens for gambling

Daily Fantasy SportsITP enters partnership with Playtech to deliver expansive F2P and DFS portfolio to its customersInside The Pocket launches WonderWins brand in India, as the exclusive Daily Fantasy partner of ESPNcricinfoWorld Championship of Online Fantasy Football Finals on the Scout NetworkDFS expert DraftKings launches new Aussie Rules games with huge prize pool across 31-week season

eSportsALPINE ESPORTS SERIES DRIVER AND TALENT LINEUP REVEALED AHEAD OF FIRST RACE ON APRIL 27THIESF and Gamers8 partner to convene the Asian esports world togetherDoes prize money for Esports fall under the Gambling Act?Motorsport Australia Announces the Launch of its Official Esports Website

European Commission Press ReleasesCodewise’s Dr. Rzeszuciński Joins the European AI Alliance, Launched by the European Commission

Gaming AwardsPopOK Gaming’s Crazy Poki has been shortlisted for CasinoBeats Game Developer AwardsShortlisted Companies Announced for BSG Awards and BTECH Awards (Riga, Latvia – 16-17 May)Second Big Win 2023: Affilka by SOFTSWISS Takes Best Affiliate Marketing Solution Title at Asia Gaming Awards

Industry NewsThe changing world of recruitment and the importance of company cultureBarrière Casinos: Alexandre Barrière, Son of the Current CEO, Takes Over as Head of the Group

Sports BettingRANDOX GRAND NATIONAL FESTIVAL NEWS: RANDOX GRAND NATIONAL TO RECEIVE WORLDWIDE EXPOSURE – INCLUDING IN THE SKIES AND ON THE SEASSmarkets and PA Betting Services strengthen long-term partnership with new agreement

Endorphina, the renowned provider of online casino games, has confirmed its attendance at the Casino Beats Summit 2023.

The event is scheduled to take place from May 23rd to 25th at the Intercontinental Malta, and Endorphina will be showcasing its latest casino games at Stand A26. As one of the most highly anticipated events in the iGaming industry, the Casino Beats Summit 2023 offers Endorphina an excellent opportunity to network with industry leaders and showcase its innovative gaming solutions.

The team is excited to meet with attendees and share their latest products and services.

Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)

Endorphina has announced its partnership with Sazka.cz, a well-established brand in the Czech Republic’s gaming market. The partnership marks Endorphina’s continued entry into the Czech market, as the company will be providing its casino games to Sazka.cz. The collaboration aims to boost the performance of the Sazka casino, leveraging popular games like Lucky Streak 3 and Hell Hot 100. This partnership is a significant achievement for Endorphina and reinforces its position as a leading online casino games developer in the industry.

Jan Urbanec, CEO at Endorphina, shares comments on the new partnership: “Endorphina is proud to officially expand the Czech market by delivering our games to sazka.cz – the great brand under Allwyn. Sazka is historically a reliable and loved brand by the Czech players. We look forward to boosting the performance of the Sazka casino with games like Lucky Streak 3 and Hell Hot 100.”

Michal Jašek – Senior Product Specialist also shares: “The iGaming business is full of adventures and for that reason Sazka chooses wisely who to cooperate with. We view Endorphina as a team of professionals and a key international player within the casino world and for those reasons we are looking forward towards our fruitful partnership.”

Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)

Endorphina, the leading online slots provider, has announced the launch of its newest game, Cash Streak. Set in the world of the mysterious Masons, players can embark on a quest for riches and build a capitalistic empire. With hidden knowledge passed down through generations, players can use this to their advantage as they spin the reels and watch their wealth grow. The ultimate goal is to uncover the secrets of the enigmatic elite and unlock even bigger rewards.

Cash Streak is Endorphina’s 5-reel, 3-row game with 243 fixed pay ways, offering players a thrilling and rewarding gaming experience. Matching symbols, except Scatter symbols, should be in any position on adjacent reels, starting from the leftmost. Only the longest way through symbols of a kind is paid. Every symbol of a kind per reel creates a separate way. Scatter wins and regular symbol wins are added. The Scatter symbol, represented by a secret mason’s pyramid, triggers free games when three or more Scatters appear on the reels. The 7, 10 or 15 Free Games are triggered by 3, 4 or 5 Scatter symbols. During Free Games all symbols are scattered symbols which means they count on any position on the reels.

Both during the main game and Free Games x2 multiplier may appear on reels 1, 2, and 3. If there are several multipliers, all of them are applied. So, players can increase the win per spin up to 8 times. Multipliers are applied to all the current winning combinations from the paytable and don’t affect the number of the Free Games won. Additionally, players can double their winnings up to ten times in the Classic Risk Game and the Bonus Pop feature adds even more excitement to the game.

Join the quest and try Endorphina’s newest game to start spinning with Cash Streak!

Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)

Endorphina, a renowned game provider, has released a new hit game! 2023 Hit Slot is a modern and stylish slot game that blends the latest technology, captivating graphics, and sounds to provide players with the ultimate gaming experience.

2023 Hit Slot has a sophisticated and elegant feel with a unique gameplay style and exciting features that will keep players engaged for hours. The game’s symbols include classic favorites like lucky clovers, bells, and sevens, as well as a few juicy surprises like watermelons, oranges, grapes, lemons, plums, and cherries. This futuristic twist on classic imagery is a nod to the golden age of casino gaming.

So, don’t miss out on the chance to hit it rich and experience the thrill of the game anytime and anywhere. 2023 Hit Slot is available on mobile and desktop, and it is sure to be a hit with players who love a good slot game. Start spinning and enjoy the rewards and excitement that come with the ultimate slot gaming experience of the year!

Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)

Betbazar partners with Turbo Stars to propel provider to new heights

MiFinity enhances the customer experience with a new payment app

Prague Gaming & TECH Summit 2023: Charting the growth of Esports in CEE

Fiat & Crypto: King Billy players get the best of both worlds.

Cloudflare, GR8 TECH, NSoft, Bragg Group, Tom Horn Gaming, Endorphina, nanocosmos, TriStratus and more confirmed as sponsors for the Prague Gaming & TECH Summit 2023

What is Betbazar expecting from the upcoming Prague Gaming & TECH Summit?

Wild journey with Gamzix in a new Wolf Story slot

CT Interactive’s portfolio is currently live at Grandwin

Gambling Industry Set for Bumper Grand National with One in Five Brits Planning to Bet

PopOK Gaming’s Crazy Poki has been shortlisted for CasinoBeats Game Developer Awards

Sportal365 to power the global content creation strategy for Betway’s entire web and applications portfolio

We are constantly showing banners about important news regarding events and product launches. Please turn AdBlock off in order to see these areas.

We value your privacy

We use cookies and other technologies to keep the site reliable and secure, tailor your experience, measure site performance and present relevant offers and advertisements, as described in our privacy policy and cookie policy.

Our website uses cookies, as almost all websites do, to help provide you with the best experience we can.

Cookies are small text files that are placed on your computer or mobile phone when you browse websites.

Our cookies help us:

- Make our website work as you’d expect

- Remember your settings during and between visits

- Offer you free services/content (thanks to advertising)

- Improve the speed/security of the site

- Allow you to share pages with social networks like Facebook

- Continuously improve our website for you

- Make our marketing more efficient (ultimately helping us to offer the service we do at the price we do)

We do not use cookies to:

- Collect any personally identifiable information (without your express permission)

- Collect any sensitive information (without your express permission)

- Pass personally identifiable data to third parties

- Pay sales commissions

{short version}This Privacy Policy discloses the privacy practices for EEGReport Magazine, EEGaming.org, GamblingIndustryB2B.com, iGamingRadio.com, GamblingAffiliateVoice.com and EuropeanGaming.eu, including subdomains, our email newsletters and other applications owned and operated by our company (collectively referred to as the “European Gaming Media and events” – formerly known as “EEGMedia“), and to any services that display this notice. The Privacy Policy also sets out the ways in which we may use your personal data.

{long detailed version} To read this in full, click on the Privacy Policy button found in this window.

{short version} These terms and conditions govern your use of the websites owned and operated by European Gaming Media and Events; by using our websites, you accept these terms and conditions in full and without reservation. If you disagree with these terms and conditions or any part of these terms and conditions, you must not use these websites.

You must be at least 18 [eighteen] years of age to use our websites. By using our websites and by agreeing to these terms and conditions, you warrant and represent that you are at least 18 years of age.

The list of the websites owned and operated by European Gaming Media and Events can be found here.

In other words,

You must be at least 18 years old to use our service and fully agree with everything stated on this page. Otherwise, sorry, guys, ours websites are not for you.

License to use our websites

Unless otherwise stated, European Gaming Media and Events and/or its licensors own the intellectual property rights published on our websites and materials used on the European Gaming Media and Evnts network. Subject to the license below, all these intellectual property rights are reserved.

You may view, download for caching purposes only, and print pages, files or other content from the websites for your own personal use, subject to the restrictions set out below and elsewhere in these terms and conditions.

You must not:

republish material from these websites in neither print nor digital media or documents (including republication on another website);

sell, rent or sub-license material from the websites;

show any material from the websites in public;

reproduce, duplicate, copy or otherwise exploit material from our websites for a commercial purpose;

edit or otherwise modify any material on these websites;

redistribute material from these websites – except for content specifically and expressly made available for redistribution; or

republish or reproduce any part of these websites through the use of iframes or screenscrapers.

Where content is specifically made available for redistribution, it may only be redistributed within your organisation.

In other words,

Everything on our websites belongs to us. You can read it, but you cannot republish it. Sounds fair, doesn’t it?

Acceptable use

You must not use these websites in any way that causes, or may cause, damage to the websites or impairment of the availability or accessibility of the European Gaming Media network or in any way which is unlawful, illegal, fraudulent or harmful, or in connection with any unlawful, illegal, fraudulent or harmful purpose or activity.

{long detailed version} To read this in full, click on the Terms of Service button found in this window.

We use cookies to make our website work including:

- Remembering your search settings

- Allowing you to add comments to our site

There is no way to prevent these cookies being set other than to not use our site.

Cookies are widely used in online advertising. Neither us, advertisers or our advertising partners can gain personally identifiable information from these cookies. We only work with advertising partners who work to accepted privacy standards such as http://www.youronlinechoices.com/uk/iab-good-practice-principles.

You can learn more about online advertising at http://www.youronlinechoices.com . You can opt-out of almost all advertising cookies at http://www.youronlinechoices.com/uk/your-ad-choices although we would prefer that you didn’t as ultimately adverts help keep much of the internet free. It is also worth noting that opting out of advertising cookies will not mean you won’t see adverts, just simply that they won’t be tailored to you any longer.

We fund our site by showing adverts as you browse our site. These adverts are usually managed by a partner specialising in providing adverts for multiple sites. Invariably these partners place cookies to collect anonymous data about the websites you visits so they can personalise the adverts to you, ensure that you don’t see the same adverts too frequently and ultimately report to advertisers on which adverts are working.

We use cookies to compile visitor statistics such as how many people have visited our website, what type of technology they are using (e.g. Mac or Windows which helps to identify when our site isn’t working as it should for particular technologies), how long they spend on the site, what page they look at etc. This helps us to continuously improve our website. These so called “analytics” programs also tell us if , on an anonymous basis, how people reached this site (e.g. from a search engine) and whether they have been here before helping us to put more money into developing our services for you instead of marketing spend.

So you can easily “Like” or share our content on the likes of Facebook and Twitter we have included sharing buttons on our site.

Cookies are set by:

The privacy implications on this will vary from social network to social network and will be dependent on the privacy settings you have chosen on these networks.