"Decisions have consequences. Bad decisions often have negative consequences. This case is a stark example of both propositions," says Supreme Court justice      The manager of the Liquid Zoo strip club in Kelowna has been awarded almost $90,000 after being attacked by a patron.

THIS CONTENT IS RESERVED FOR SUBSCRIBERS ONLY Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.  Exclusive articles by top sports columnists Patrick Johnston, Ben Kuzma, J. J. Abrams and others. Plus, Canucks Report, Sports and Headline News newsletters and events. Unlimited online access to The Province and 15 news sites with one account. The Province ePaper, an electronic replica of the print edition to view on any device, share and comment on. Daily puzzles and comics, including the New York Times Crossword.      Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.  Exclusive articles by top sports columnists Patrick Johnston, Ben Kuzma, J.J. Abrams and others. Plus, Canucks Report, Sports and Headline News newsletters and events. Unlimited online access to The Province and 15 news sites with one account. The Province ePaper, an electronic replica of the print edition to view on any device, share and comment on. Daily puzzles and comics, including the New York Times Crossword.      Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience.  Access articles from across Canada with one account. Share your thoughts and join the conversation in the comments.  Get email updates from your favourite authors.

We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or

tap here to see other videos from our team.   According to a recent Supreme Court of B. C. ruling, David Joseph Habib was working at the Liquid Zoo in downtown Kelowna on June 19, 2019 when defendant Brandon Daniel Wilson and a 19-year-old female friend entered after a long drinking session to celebrate the girl’s birthday.

Sign up to receive The Canucks Report newsletter, delivered straight to your inbox at the start of every series. Essential reading for hockey fans who eat, sleep, Canucks, repeat.         There was an error, please provide a valid email address.        By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails or any newsletter. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300    Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Canucks Report will soon be in your inbox.   We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again

Court heard that once the pair arrived the female sat at the back of the bar and began talking to three older men, while Wilson sat close to the stage. Wilson was in a relationship with the female’s mom at the time.  Habib, 62, was described as an accomplished boxer who operates the Kelowna Boxing Club. In the year before the incident he won a gold medal for his age group at the Boxing World Championships.  In her judgment, Justice Briana Hardwick wrote that soon after the female entered the club it was identified by staff that she was highly intoxicated. Habib approached her and asked who she was with and offered her water.

“The staff were clearly not going to serve (her) any alcoholic beverages at that point and her behaviour was not obstructive or belligerent. They were simply concerned that she was overly intoxicated and had the right under the Liquor Control and Licensing Act to require that she leave the establishment in order to remain in compliance with their licensing obligations,” Hardwick wrote.  Habib notified the female that she would need to leave and she was completely compliant. However, as she was being walked out Wilson approached Habib and struck him on the side of the face without warning.  “The force of the blow from the defendant was such that it broke the plaintiff’s eye glasses and a portion of the glass from the lenses, in layman’s terms, lacerated his eyeball. It also broke bones on the left side of his face. The full extent of the injury was not immediately known, but the blow was recognized to have been sufficient to take the plaintiff to the floor and leave him temporarily incapacitated,” Hardwick wrote.

Wilson was then detained by staff, arrested by the RCMP and criminally charged. He was ultimately acquitted by a jury.  “In this action, the plaintiff must prove his claim and his damages on the balance of probabilities and not on the criminal standard of proof beyond a reasonable doubt,” Hardwick wrote. “I accept that it is proven, on the balance of probabilities, that the defendant committed the tort of battery as against the plaintiff.”  Based on the injuries to Habib, Hardwick awarded a total $89,375 in damages.  “Decisions have consequences. Bad decisions often have negative consequences. This case is a stark example of both propositions,” she wrote.      Support our journalism: Our in-depth journalism is possible thanks to the support of our subscribers. For just $3.50 per week, you can get unlimited, ad-lite access to The Vancouver Sun, The Province, National Post and 13 other Canadian news sites. Support us by subscribing today: The Vancouver Sun | The Province.

Vancouver park board asked to crack down on inappropriate swimwear at city pools                Canucks: Oliver Ekman-Larsson’s broken foot put him ‘behind the eight-ball, and I never caught up’                CEO takes millions in bonuses, tells employees getting nothing to 'leave Pity City'                Canucks prospects: Five things about the upcoming playoffs in Abbotsford                Langley lawyer in ‘creepy uncle’ routine with female employees suspended for six weeks

This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.