What we do

Safeguarding those at risk of financial abuse and scamming

The Queen’s Nursing Institute Scotland (QNIS) is a small charity doing big things to promote excellence in community nursing to improve the health and wellbeing of the people of Scotland. We support, encourage and inspire nurses employed by the NHS, independent or charitable sector who work in a huge range of roles across Scotland to really make a difference for the communities they serve.

We do this by supporting nurses and midwives to:

initiate and lead community projects that tackle health and care inequity, sustainably and in partnership with local people

be compassionate, creative and courageous leaders in their communities by providing challenging and inspiring transformational development programmes

build connections with a wide range of stakeholders to co-produce hopeful, research-informed responses to Scotland’s public health challenges

demonstrate their extraordinary scope and impact on Scottish society by advocating for the professions

focus on their own wellbeing and promoting the fellowship of retired Queen’s Nurses

QNIS Council includes up to 15 Trustees. It meets four times per year to discuss governance issues, and an AGM takes place usually in November. The meetings are currently held online during working hours, although we are planning at least one meeting this year in Edinburgh. Council papers are sent out a week in advance.

The Institute is currently looking for a new Chair to oversee the highest standards of governance for a flourishing organisation in line with OSCR’s Guidance on Charity Trustee Duties. We are looking for a Chair who will lead this ambitious small charity as it seeks to unleash the potential of nurses across Scotland’s communities.

The role of the Chair is to:

Lead the Council of Trustees, ensuring that collectively there are the right skills and expertise for good governance.

Work with Trustees to make sure that the charity is operating sustainably, strategically, effectively and there is sound financial governance.

Establish a great working relationship with the Chief Executive and Nurse Director providing support and advice while respecting executive responsibility.

Facilitate meetings with energy and good humour so Trustees enjoy their governance role.

To apply please email a completed application form to Amanda Regan

amanda.regan@qnis.org.uk

This should be accompanied by a brief CV and covering letter (addressed to Mrs Erica Reid, Chair of Board Perspective Committee) summarising why you are interested in this role, the skills and experience you bring and your vision for QNIS.

The closing date for completed applications is midday, Monday 5th June 2023

Interviews will be held in Edinburgh (videoconference facilities available) on Wednesday 21 June 2023

QNIS is an organisation that values diversity and welcomes applications from all sections of the community.

QNIS is a fully constituted and independent charity, registered with the Office of the Scottish Charity Regular (OSCR) as a Scottish Charitable Incorporated Organisation or SCIO. SCIO status provides limited liability for Trustees.

For more information visit https://www.oscr.org.uk/managing-a-charity/faqs/