Karnataka: Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) has begun registering admission to the BSc Nursing course for the 2023-24 session.

The candidates can apply till 22.4.2023 (11:59 pm). To apply, candidates can use the link https://keaonline.karnataka.gov.in/cetapp2023/forms/appchecklist.aspx. They will have to pay the application fee of Rs 500 (General, SC, ST, Category – I, OBC candidates (2A,2B,3A,3B) & PWD) and Rs 1000 (Non-Karnataka candidates). The prescribed registration fee should be remitted through the payment gateway using Debit or Credit Cards only. The registration fee is not refundable under any circumstances.

Online registration is mandatory for participating in admission to BSc Nursing. The candidate has to undergo document verification. Mere registration alone does not confer any right on the eligibility; the eligibility is subject to rules and regulations issued by the Government occasionally.

The instructions are based on the existing selection rules. Amendments made by the Government of Karnataka & RGUHS, Bengaluru, from time to time and any other law that will be in force at the appropriate stage will apply.

The following process is to be followed after filling out the online application form –

1.	After filling out the online application form, press the SUBMIT button if the candidates are sure that all the data they entered are correct.

2.	The system will ask to upload a photograph, and the scanned photograph of a .jpg format file with the specification mentioned must be uploaded.

3.	An application number will be generated, and the candidates should record it for future usage.

4.	Take the printout of the filled-in application.

Before filling out the application form, the candidates should be ready with the following documents –

1.	SSLC / 10th Marks Card – To enter the registration number and date of birth.

5.	Recent passport-size photograph of the candidate in .jpg format (max 50 KB size).

The candidates should have passed Physics, Chemistry, Biology and English papers individually and obtained a minimum of 45% marks together in PCB papers at the II PUC or 12th Standard, i.e. (10+2). The candidate from SC/ST or other backward classes shall obtain 40% marks in PCB papers in the qualifying examination.

1.	Candidate should be a citizen of India and should have completed the age of 17 years as of 31/12/2023 and satisfies any one of the following conditions –

2.	Each condition is specified as a clause and is individually referred to by a code. The documents to be produced while verifying documents supporting the claim for each clause are also detailed below the respective clauses.

3.	The candidates who do not satisfy any of the Clauses / Eligibility Criteria detailed below and those who do not produce the prescribed documents in original will not be eligible for admission to professional courses under Government quota seats.

4.	Other than the certificate mentioned in clauses, if a candidate claims a seat under Article 371 (j) Hyderabad-Karnataka region reservation, the candidate should produce an eligibility certificate from the concerned Assistant Commissioner as per the format in Annexure.

The detailed eligibility clauses and required documents are enclosed in the notice below. In their interest, the candidates must satisfy themselves about their eligibility for admission to relevant courses. If any ineligibility is detected by the Government / KEA / University / Apex Body at any stage, their candidature will be canceled, and they shall be liable for legal action.

Reservation of seats will depend on how much the Government specifies it. The detailed reservation criteria are category-wise enclosed in the notice below.  The medical examination of Persons with Disability will be notified on the KEA website.

Certificates in original along with one set of attested copies to be produced/uploaded at the time of Document Verification: Mode/ Schedule for document verification will be published on the KEA website -

2.	Proof of having paid the application fees

3.	SSLC marks card (for proof of Date of Birth)

5.	Study Certificate countersigned by the concerned BEO/DDPI NOTE: CBSE, CISCE candidates should produce the study certificate obtained from the Principal of their respective schools

6.	Further, countersignature of BEO or DDPI is not required for them

If applicable, the following documents should be produced -

1.	Kannada Medium Study Certificate countersigned by the concerned BEO for the candidates claiming Kannada Medium reservation benefits

2.	Rural Study Certificate countersigned by the concerned BEO and a verification certificate (only for GM candidates)

3.	Caste Certificate / Caste Income Certificate / Income Certificate obtained from the concerned Tahasildhar for the candidates claiming Reservation benefits. (Caste and Income Certificate in Form 'D' in case of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and Form' E' in case of Category-I and a Caste Income Certificate in Form' F' for other backward classes like 2A, 2B, 3A and 3B, issued by the jurisdictional Tahasildhar)Domicile Certificate for 10 years in Karnataka (Issued by the Tahashildar of Karnataka) or Study Certificate of seven years in Karnataka

4.	Hyderabad-Karnataka Region Reservation (Article 371 (j):) Candidates claiming must submit the certificate in Annexure – A (eligibility certificate – rule 3(3)) issued by the concerned Assistant Commissioner during document verification

5.	Parent's study certificate / Parent's Hometown certificate / Parent's Domicile certificate / Parent's Employment certificate / Parent's Cumulative Record / Parent's Marks Card, etc., for the candidates claiming eligibility for Government seats based on the domicile/study/employment of the parent.

6.	For Horanadu, Gadinadu Kannadiga candidates and Anglo Indian Candidates: Affidavit is Duly sworn in for the candidates who claim eligibility under Horanadu and Gadinadu Kannadiga clauses & Anglo Indian clauses.

7.	Candidate shall be eligible to claim caste, category and income benefit only if he has claimed the same in the online application form. Candidates belonging to SC, ST and Category-I claiming seats under reserved category shall also produce an Income certificate issued by the jurisdictional Tahsildar for verification if fee exemption is to be claimed.

8.	Relevant Certificates for those who are claiming an exemption for seven years of study in Karnataka.

The venue for document verification will be notified on the website. Requests for a change of category after application submission will not be entertained.

The process to be followed by candidates seeking reservation –

1.	Religion, Caste: Mention the religion, caste and sub-caste the candidates belong.

2.	Postal Address: The candidates must furnish the full address in block letters. The name of the City, State and Pin Code should be mentioned. Telephone with STD code/ Mobile and e-mail ID may also be mentioned.

3.	Do you claim reservation under Person with disability quota: Select Yes or No

To view the notices, click on the links below –