The Oscar-winning actress was there to cheer on the Donnie Darko star

The Oscar-winning actress was there to cheer on the Donnie Darko star

Legendary actress Jamie Lee Curtis couldn't contain her pride as she supported her superstar godson, Jake Gyllenhaal, at the premiere of his latest film, The Covenant.

The Oscar-winning godmother accompanied the 42-year-old actor to the star-studded event held at the Directors Guild of America on Monday in Los Angeles.

The duo turned heads as they arrived, both donning chic all-black ensembles and holding hands for the cameras. Jamie even planted a sweet kiss on Jake's cheek as they posed together on the red carpet.

Joining Jake at the premiere were his talented co-stars Dar Salim, Antony Starr, Sean Sagar, Christian Ochoa Lavernia, Jason Wong, and Emily Beecham.

Throughout the years, Jamie has consistently supported her godson in his endeavors. She previously hosted a panel for him when he released his movie The Guilty in 2021.

DISCOVER: Jamie Lee Curtis reveals reason why she skipped the Oscars after party – and it's not what you think

As it turns out, the godmother and the Donnie Darko star have even become neighbors during the pandemic. She told People: "We've just gotten to know each other.”

Jake and his girlfriend Jeanne Cadieu, who were first linked in 2018, lived with Jamie for almost a year. They resided in a house she owned next door.

She told People at the premiere of The Covenant: "We've just gotten to know each other," and recalled fondly: "He made a lot of sourdough bread," adding that it was "very good".

"So singing, acting, sourdough," she joked, listing Jake's many talents.

"And he did that test where you do a handstand against the wall and take your shirt off and put it back on."

Jake chimed in, admitting that he's still baking sourdough even though the pandemic is over: "Yes. I haven't stopped. Even though we're out of the pandemic, I am still making sourdough."

Jamie's connection with the Gyllenhaal family runs deep, as she has been friends with Jake's parents, director Stephen Gyllenhaal and screenwriter Naomi Foner, for many years.

Keep up with the latest celebrity stories Sign up to our HELLO! Mail newsletter to receive the latest news straight to your inbox.