Dr Glenn Daman’s book, “The Lighthouse: Discovering Security in the Radiance of God’s Character,” helps us to see trials through the lens of God’s Character. When we understand the attributes and character of god we can be encouraged and infused with strength for difficult times.

While there are many books written on the attributes of God, there are none that provide daily devotionals to guide the person not only in better understanding God’s character, but also being able to connect his character to our daily life.  Some of the astrributes covered are;

Finding Our Security in God The Power of God; The Knowledge of God; The Wisdom of God and Suffering; The God Who Is Present; The Unchanging God; The Love of God; The Goodness of God; The Holiness of God; The Righteousness of God; The Faithfulness of God; The Truthfulness of God; The Divine Invitation

You can purchase his book here:

Our  next meeting is tonight! There’s still time to register and join, but doors will close  April 28th and won’t open again until next year.  www.debbiekitterman.com/shop

I want to personally invite you to join me and my online prophetic community called The Remnant. Doors are NOW OPEN for you to join this year long hybrid mentoring and discipleship community. The Remnant is a year long community that meets online twice a month from April 5,  2023- March 2024. Mark your calendars and plan to sign up. Our next Remnant Session will be ton April 19, 2023.

Check out the newest #Podcast from @Dare2Hear Episode 208:

Debbie is an author, speaker, pastor and the founder of “Dare 2 Hear,” a ministry training individuals in hearing the voice of God. Debbie is a natural encourager who is passionate about equipping individuals so they can go deeper in their relationship with God, reach their God potential and claim their Kingdom inheritance.

Brandi has grown up in an environment and culture of the prophetic where it is a normal part of everyday life.  She brings a perspective the younger generation can relate to on how to implement the prophetic in everyday life.

Brandi is the digital media director for Restoration Church, a free lance graphic designer and a visual worship leader.  She not only leads worship at her church, but she uses graphic design and video to serve her customers in getting their message out to the masses.  Brandi’s creativity helps engage individuals and draws them into a deeper relationship with God. She is the owner of Create Media and enjoys creating messages through media for churches and other clients.

Did You hear the exciting news  that has been a few months in the works?  I have been personally invited to have my “Dare2Hear The Podcast” be a part of the Destiny Image Podcast Network. YAY!  This is such an incredible honor and I am extremely blessed. Thank you to everyone of you who subscribes, listens or watches on YouTube.  If you subscribe to our podcast or follow me on social media, you will notice that I have a new Podcast Badge. In order to be on the Destiny Image Podcast Network Platform, they wanted to brand my show to match their look.

If you see this new graphic, it’s me!  YAY!!!! Same great teaching, content, and interviews, just an expanded platform and larger audience. If you aren’t yet a subscriber, click on the image above to be taken to the DIPN Home page or scroll down to the podcast section under the linkup and click on any one of the links there or the YouTube Channel one as well.