LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA: 'Imagine Dragons' lead singer Dan Reynolds' wife has formally filed for divorce after more than ten years of marriage. Aja Volkman is reportedly asking a Los Angeles County judge to formally and legally end their relationship, according to fresh legal filings. Volkman filed for the dissolution of their marriage following the couple's separation announcement in September 2022.

The former couple has four children together: a boy Valentine, 2, twin daughters Gia and Coco, 5, and a daughter Arrow, 10. A few months after they announced their split, Dan's new girlfriend Minka Kelly came to light. They were spotted on a few outings, including lunch dates, walks while holding hands, and dinner dates, as per TMZ.

'Truth hurts': Internet rallies behind man who blamed 'lazy and narcissistic' sister for parents' split

'Serial cheater and adulterer': Drew Sidora reveals SHOCKING details in her amended divorce filing

Dan Reynolds, 35, has been in a generally positive mood since his split with the Nico Vega frontwoman, 43, and not just because of Minka. He was seen dancing the night away on a cruise to Mexico last month.

The 'Radioactive' singer married Volkman in March 2011. The couple welcomed daughter Arrow in August 2012, followed by twin daughters Gia and Coco in March 2017. Reynolds and the Oregon native announced their separation about a year later. "After 7 beautiful years together, Aja and I’s marriage has come to an end,” Reynolds tweeted in April 2018. "Our children continue to be the most important thing in our lives, & we will continue to coparent them with all our love. I ask that you please respect our privacy at this time as we work through this as a family."

But the couple made amends in January 2019. Reynolds revealed that he and Volkman were expecting their fourth child four months later. "We have a boy on the way," the 'Believer' artist told in April 2019. "Three girls and a boy on the way, due in October." As Reynolds and Volkman worked to rebuild their romance, their son Valentine became part of the family in October 2019. The 'I Bet My Life' songwriter revealed in a March 2021 TikTok video how he and his wife got back in touch after "seven months" of silence. "Have you ever gotten a text that changed your life?" he posed the question to his followers in the video, adding that Volkman's speech turned his perspective "upside down." "She said she didn’t need to own me to love me," he recounted at the time. "She loved me without expectations. We ditched the lawyers and went to lunch."

After three years of healing, though, their relationship ran into trouble. The singer of 'Gravity' and 'Thunder' officially ended their relationship in September 2022. "I am saddened to say that after many beautiful years together Aja and I have separated. Being great parents to our children is our number one priority," Reynolds posted on Twitter at the time. "Thank you for always supporting us with love and care for all these years."

The Nevada native was caught out on a date with Minka Kelly, who had broken up with Trevor Noah in May, two months after they had announced their separation. A source told in December 2022 that the 42-year-old 'Roommate' actress and Reynolds were savoring their new relationship. "These are obviously early days for Minka and Dan but it’s going great and they’re both incredibly happy," the insider said at the time. "Being back on the singles scene after long relationships has been a challenging adjustment for each of them, so they’re taking their time and easing into it as opposed to running before they can walk, so to speak. But so far, so good, and they're having fun, getting along great."

The internet immediately reacted to the news. A user hilariously asked on Twitter, "Did he Imagine Divorce?" Another user said, "He wouldn’t stop saying “imagine dragon deez nuts on your forehead”….." One person wrote, "Imagine Decoupling." "I guess he's Radioactive?" quipped another. One user shared his speculation and said, "Dan's got a secret his wife found out about! Anyone with [eyes emoji] can see it. #BeYouDan"

This article contains remarks made on the Internet by individual people and organizations. MEAWW cannot confirm them independently and does not support claims or opinions being made online.