Premier hospitality company Aitken Spence Hotels iconic resort Heritance Kandalama is at the centre stage at the National Gallery of Modern Art (NGMA) Delhi at the ‘Geoffrey Bawa: It is Essential to be There’ architectural and photographic installation, in its first-of-its-kind exhibition drawing inspiration from Bawa’s archives and practice.

The world-renowned architect Deshamanya Geoffrey Bawa, acknowledged as ‘father of tropical modernism’, was responsible for reviving the Sri Lankan architectural space with suave lines and modern sensibilities whilst encompassing local traditions and its vibrancies. The exhibition hosted at the NGMA until May 7, 2023 is a celebration of the 75th anniversary of Indo-Lanka Diplomatic Relations and features over 120 documents from the Bawa archives, most of which have never been shown publicly previously.

On board as a primary sponsor, Aitken Spence Hotels’ Heritance Kandalama hosted an exclusive invitees-only event on April 7 at The Claridges, featuring an intimate conversation between Indian photographer extraordinaire Dayanita Singh and leading Sri Lankan architect and student of Bawa, Channa Daswatte. Both heavily influenced by the work and practices of Sri Lanka’s most prolific and influential architect, the conversation will take a deep dive into ephemeral yet stoic qualities that make Bawa design what it is revered for today. Daswatte was also heavily involved in the work of Heritance Kandalama and shared first-hand insights into the thought process behind the world’s first LEED certified and Asia’s first Green Globe certified hotel for sustainable design and practices.

“We are honoured to partner with the Bawa Trust in taking the work of our legendary architect Deshamanya Geoffrey Bawa to the world in an exhibition of this calibre. Among his most formidable creations, Heritance Kandalama is an iconic masterpiece, given its unique amalgamation of nature and modern comforts. We hope this exhibition will inspire a new generation of architects to think innovatively to address current and future needs of the world, while preserving our inherent traditions and values, symbiotically,” commented Aitken Spence PLC Director, Head of Tourism and Leisure and Aitken Spence Hotel Management Chairperson Stasshani Jayawardena.

The exhibition is jointly organised by the NGMA in New Delhi, High Commission of Sri Lanka in New Delhi and Geoffrey Bawa Trust.