Perpetua Resources (NASDAQ:PPTA – Get Rating) and Seabridge Gold (NYSE:SA – Get Rating) are both small-cap basic materials companies, but which is the superior business? We will contrast the two companies based on the strength of their risk, dividends, profitability, valuation, institutional ownership, earnings and analyst recommendations.

This table compares Perpetua Resources and Seabridge Gold’s gross revenue, earnings per share (EPS) and valuation.

Seabridge Gold is trading at a lower price-to-earnings ratio than Perpetua Resources, indicating that it is currently the more affordable of the two stocks.

69.2% of Perpetua Resources shares are owned by institutional investors. Comparatively, 29.4% of Seabridge Gold shares are owned by institutional investors. 1.6% of Perpetua Resources shares are owned by insiders. Comparatively, 12.8% of Seabridge Gold shares are owned by insiders. Strong institutional ownership is an indication that endowments, hedge funds and large money managers believe a stock will outperform the market over the long term.

This table compares Perpetua Resources and Seabridge Gold’s net margins, return on equity and return on assets.

This is a summary of recent ratings and recommmendations for Perpetua Resources and Seabridge Gold, as provided by MarketBeat.

Perpetua Resources presently has a consensus price target of $9.17, indicating a potential upside of 95.04%. Seabridge Gold has a consensus price target of $60.00, indicating a potential upside of 350.45%. Given Seabridge Gold’s  higher probable upside, analysts plainly believe Seabridge Gold is more favorable than Perpetua Resources.

Perpetua Resources has a beta of 0.62, suggesting that its share price is 38% less volatile than the S&P 500. Comparatively, Seabridge Gold has a beta of 0.91, suggesting that its share price is 9% less volatile than the S&P 500.

Seabridge Gold beats Perpetua Resources on 7 of the 10 factors compared between the two stocks.

Perpetua Resources Corp. engages in the mineral exploration activities in the United States. The company primarily explores for gold, silver, and antimony. Its principal asset is the 100% owned Stibnite gold project located in Valley County, Idaho. The company was formerly known as Midas Gold Corp. and changed its name to Perpetua Resources Corp. in February 2021. Perpetua Resources Corp. was incorporated in 2011 and is headquartered in Boise, Idaho.

Seabridge Gold Inc. engages in the acquisition and exploration of gold properties. It operates through the following projects: Kerr-Sulphurets-Mitchel (KSM), Courageous Lake, Iskut, Snowstorm, non-core assets, 3 Aces, and building trust. The company was founded by James S. Anthony and Rudi P. Fronk on September 14, 1979 and is headquartered in Toronto, Canada.

Receive News & Ratings for Perpetua Resources Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Perpetua Resources and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter.