Benny The Butcher has settled the Snowfall vs. Power debate once and for all — and the rapper’s personal preference might surprise his fans.

Taking to Instagram Live on Sunday (April 16), the “Super Plug” rapper stated that the Damson Idris-led show had an edge over the 50 Cent-produced Starz smash — but he still had a healthy respect for both of them.

“Snowfall is better,” he said. “I’m saying Snowfall is better, but, they’re both great shows. I like to see Michael Rainey — I like watching his ascension. He’s fire. He’s getting better and better at his shit. But for some reason, I’m just more drawn in to Snowfall.”

Take a listen to the Butcher’s words below.

Benny the Butcher isn’t the only Hip Hop ‘head who is a fan of Snowfall. In fact, JAY-Z and Beyoncé are both fans of the series and good friends of the lead actor — and no less of an authority than Damson Idris revealed it.

Appearing on The Drew Barrymore Show on March 13, the actor discussed how he prepared for the role of Franklin Saint, revealing that Snowfall‘s creator, the late John Singleton, allegedly dropped him off in South Central LA to help him adjust to the local environment.

JAY-Z Once Roasted 'Snowfall' Actor Damson Idris For Showing Up Shirtless To Lenny S Birthday Zoom Call

“Singleton took me to South Central, opened the car door and said ‘if you survive, you’ve got the role,’” he said.

Later in the conversation, he opened up about his friendship with JAY-Z and Beyoncé. The U. K. actor noted that he’s been around the famous couple “many times.”

Idris then gave a quick, funny impression of Hov while explaining his almost paternal behavior toward him. “Yeah, I’ll be in Miami, it’s late. I’ll call them up, and I’ll be like, ‘Hey, I can’t get reservations at Carbone,’” he said.

To which Idris claimed the Brooklyn-bred MC responded by telling him to “win a few more Emmys before having that clout.” While the actor’s ego may have been slightly bruised, he seemed to take the comment in good fun, and called him and Queen Bey “the sweetest.”

Idris also noted that he and Jay have “connected in many ways.”