Multiple NFL insiders have suggested the contract quarterback Jalen Hurts received from the Philadelphia Eagles will do Baltimore Ravens star Lamar Jackson zero favors this spring.

The Athletic's Mike Jones has called Hurts' deal "an eye-opener for Jackson." Hurts reportedly agreed to a five-year extension worth up to $255M with $179.3M guaranteed, while Jackson allegedly wants more than the $230M in fully guaranteed money Deshaun Watson received from the Cleveland Browns last year.

"If he abandons the pursuit of such a contract, Jackson could more realistically command an extension of $260M, with anywhere from $180M to $200M fully guaranteed," Jones said. "Or, if he doesn’t want to lock himself in with the Ravens for five years, he could settle for a shorter three-year, $165M deal with all of that guaranteed."

It was reported as recently as Monday that the Ravens have been willing to go as high as $200M in total guaranteed money.

"There seems to be little chance of Jackson getting a fully guaranteed deal, but he will want at least Hurts' $179M guaranteed," Dan Pompei of The Athletic added. "And though he has a good argument to get it, it will come down to how much leverage he has. The guess here is Jackson probably won’t put his signature on a contract that does not give him an average of at least $50M per year."

Jackson can speak with other clubs while on the non-exclusive franchise tag. He's been negotiating without a representative certified by the NFL Players Association, and it was reported last month that some teams have been "hesitant" to make a move for the one-time NFL Most Valuable Player in part because he's missed 11 games (playoffs included) since Week 1 of the 2021 season due to injuries.

On Tuesday afternoon, Pro Football Talk's Mike Florio compared Hurts' accepted contract with what Jackson reportedly rejected and determined "that the Hurts deal will do little to bring Jackson and the Ravens to a long-overdue consensus." Florio, ESPN's Dan Orlovsky, NFL insider Jason La Canfora and NBC Sports' Peter King are among noteworthy media personalities who have said they believe Jackson could threaten to hold out rather than play for Baltimore on the franchise tag.

The Ravens and Jackson have until the July 17 deadline for teams to sign tagged players to come to terms on a long-term contract.