World's No. 1 source for LEGO news, reviews, and fan creations.

Skip to content

About

How to get featured on TBB

Some towers have spires and some towers inspire

There’s magic waiting to be revealed in every LEGO piece, and builders like exis- (or like you, dear Reader) bring it out. In this case, the build itself is quite magical, being a mage tower of sorts. The black roofing and crenellations create a forbidding–or foreboding–presence. However, the tan of the rest of the architecture balances it out. Perhaps this hints at the risk vs reward of entering such a place. Looking closer, you’ll see wonderful details abounding throughout the build. I really like the use of minifig legs for details in the base floor windows. I do recommend taking a trip over to the builder’s photostream to take a look at the wonders that fill the tower’s interior. There’s even a brief video showing off some cool play features.

Like this article? Tell all your friends!Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window)Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)Click to share on Telegram (Opens in new window)Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window)Click to share on Skype (Opens in new window)

Where’s a Strider when you need one?!

The Brothers Brick is funded by our readers and the community. Articles may include affiliate links, and when you purchase products from those links, TBB may earn a commission that helps support the site.

© Copyright The Brothers Brick, LLC. All Rights Reserved. The Brothers Brick, circle logo, and wordmark are trademarks of The Brothers Brick, LLC.

The Brothers Brick respects your online privacy and security. In accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) effective on May 25, 2018, we are providing greater transparency, and we are enabling new privacy controls so you can choose how The Brothers Brick handles your personal information.

The Brothers Brick Privacy Policy provides details on the types of personal information (or user data) we collect, how we process and store that data, and how you can request removal of your user data.

You read and agreed to our  Privacy Policy

Track acceptance of The Brothers Brick's Privacy Policy in accordance with the European Union General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) effective on May 25, 2018.

Measure website performance and ensure correct website behaviors for visitors, including retention of user settings and preferences.

The Brothers Brick relies on a variety of online advertising partners and technology platforms to fund operation of the world's most popular LEGO hobbyist website. These cookies enable our advertising partners to display relevant advertising to you.