Transcripts are auto-generated and thus will be be inaccurate and at times crude. We are considering building a system to allow volunteers to edit transcripts in a controlled system. No part of this transcript may be copied or referenced or transmitted in any way whatsoever.

Transcripts are auto-generated and thus will be be inaccurate and at times crude. We are considering building a system to allow volunteers to edit transcripts in a controlled system. No part of this transcript may be copied or referenced or transmitted in any way whatsoever.

To begin with, and that's a really that's a question that's important actually to contemplate a little bit because, again, there's a few questions with a few things that many, as we talked about, we come to a point where the mind, the human mind, you know, has its limits. And it stops at a certain point, why He created us, the only reason we can accept for why he created is the reason that he gave us themselves upon data. We can't make up our own, or we can't really come to it's hard because we're getting the reason that we asked this question, and that we don't like the answer sometimes, is that we're projecting human emotions and human motives on God was saying, Well, if I

were him, which is, of course, the horrific thing to say, but if I were doing this, why would I do it? Or why would I not do it? Or why would I allow it, you're gonna you're projecting yourself on God, which is a huge problem and his own. And we've talked about this a number of times in the previous sessions that you don't do that, then that's not appropriate. And even if you did do that, the conclusion that you come to cannot be valid based on doing it because we're not teasing Subhana wa, tada, human and he's not similar to us, and we're not similar to him. So to project our emotions and our motives and intentions and needs and desires on Allah subhanaw taala that we don't like the

answer. We say, well, that doesn't make any sense. Well, that's not acceptable, because really, we're not God, and we're not godly in any form, or any manner. So when Allah says that I treated you as a Khalifa and Leah Boudewijn, which is basically the two understandings of why we're here why we're here. We are stewards of the earth and we're servants of Allah subhanaw taala, even though he does not require service. Well, the question that comes after that is, again, the strawman fallacy or fallacy is because it's easy to say, well, you worship and then you take well, this God must be have a big ego and it has insecurities. I should allow Gela, but they'll use it because he was he

wanted to serve, but they just don't understand like the actual concept because they didn't take the time and have this explained to them appropriately to see what what actually Allah subhanaw taala requires nothing will ever need you. We're not going for Cora, he is he is in need of no one. No, does he require anything, and we're the ones who are needed to him. Our service for him is for us. It's not for him subpoena was either the, the the ultimate, our optimal existence is through serving Allah subhanaw taala. But since he needs nothing, then the service to Allah subhanaw taala has to come through a medium, the medium is service of other people, which is exactly what you know, the

concept of us being here. And that happens through actual service and through stewardship, which has responsibility and leadership and accountability. And that's why we're here. That's what Allah that's the reason Allah subhanaw gives for treating us.

You don't have to like it, it doesn't matter whether you like it or you don't doesn't really play into this equation at all. This is how his wireless Wi Fi this, this is what he explained to us. We have to accept it because any other projection is just going to be based on our our whims and desires, seeing why Allah did something, but I will add one piece here that I think is worth maybe contemplating when he says Why do you do this? The question was, why wouldn't he? That's the real question. I think there's not Why did Allah create it? Why wouldn't he create us?

You understand that? I don't, I think I think we struggle. And I've always kind of looked into this and

tried to understand it more. I think as human beings, we don't really comprehend non non existence. Like for us, we don't understand what that means. Like, this is why we're scared of death, because death seems to suggest that being there, so we don't like it. We think that if we're not around, but that somehow our consciousness is around somewhere, like somehow our our ability to hear, see and think is still floating somewhere in the air. Like we're not here, maybe in body, but we're still there. Like, there's something about us. You know, if you're saying why luxurious, then you're never there like you never existed, and you never would. And that would be the end of it. And the fact of

the matter is that life is the ultimate blessing. It really is even in the Quran, life is the ultimate lesson, there's nothing. There's nothing more valuable than the fact that lots of gratitude life, the ability, gratitude consciousness, you're here, you're able to think and see and hear and, or whatever senses that actually worked for you. Let's say that you don't have all those senses, whatever, it doesn't actually work, you're able to communicate with those around you in the world. And you're able to actually enjoy this, this extremely interesting

device of your consciousness and your brain. And you're able to enjoy a lot of what Allah subhanaw has put out there for you even just relationships with other people. It's a beautiful thing. Life itself has a lot of potential for beauty, it has potential for suffering and pain and agony. And death is a part of life that's been decreed upon us from the day we were born. But there's a lot of beauty potential for beauty as well. And the argument that we make, well, if we knew there was going to be suffering and white, well, but he also knows that gonna be a lot of beauty. And there's going to be a lot of joy, there's going to be a lot of meaningfulness and fulfillment. And so if there's,

if you feel like you're in the position where you can weigh things out and tell him what he shouldn't shouldn't have done, by all means, go ahead and see how that goes for you. But as far as we're concerned, Allah subhanaw taala is the one who makes that judgment. And he did. And we're here and very few people on the planet for the majority of their life didn't want to be here. Very few people, for the majority of their lives would say I didn't I didn't

Never want it to exist. Are there moments when you default felt that? Sure, sure, there'll be moments like that there'll be moments of severe suffering or pain or difficulty or, or whatever is going on that they'll feel that. But for the majority of human beings, if we're the majority of their lives, they don't, they're happy that they're here. They're very, they love that they here they want to survive, they want to continue to be here, they never don't want to not be here. Even those who commit suicide or contemplated, they don't do it because they don't want to live. They just can't stand there. Their life, not life that they don't want is there one, it's just different.

It's not that they don't want to live, it's just this life is too difficult for them. So they don't know what to do with it. So this is how they respond to it and say I knew pathological Jonnie for

it's looked at as something that is unique, that needs to be treated and helped. Because we accept one of the Maxim's again, what are the self evidence, evident truths, and we talked about this at the beginning. One of them is the desire to live, a desire to live, life is driven, every form of life is driven, all life wants to live, anything from a flying to a bacteria to, to an elephant, everything wants to live as much as long as possible, as well as possible. We all do. That's fine. And biologically, evolutionarily, we are designed to want to live there, it's normal for you, for you to rise to want to live and enjoy life. And to say that life is not worth living, because

there's something in it that we don't like, again, that's a little bit of a stretch of the imagination. I think it's a little bit beyond what is acceptable to be expressed to be stating and saying, when we didn't contribute to this life at all. And then of course, the the argument well, I didn't ask to be created. Okay, that's fair enough. I mean, how are you going to ask or deny this? Like, what was the process that was going to happen? In order for you to be asked and answered the question, you'd have to be alive, Mr. Alive, and that's pretty much it's done. So this concept itself, this is where we kind of start borderlining asking questions and talking about things that

are a little bit beyond our ability to comprehend like, it's just a higher level, we just can't go there. It's just not we're not we don't have the ability to go there. And comprehend, cognitively, how do you how do you how does Allah He take your permission to create you are not He created you, he didn't open a door for you, he didn't bring you a meal, he didn't come and visit you at your home, he created you, you were nothing and that you're something the we don't understand what that means, like we can't, I can't imagine what that means. Even when you have a child, you still don't understand exactly what that means. I'm going from nothing. This is something this is not not

comprehensible. For us as human beings. So this whole idea of getting asked for this is not you're granted the ultimate blessing. You have it right now. Now, if you decide that you don't want to use it well, and you decide that this, you're gonna, you're gonna throw it all away, that's up to you. But you can't really argue your way out of accountability. On the Day of Judgment, you were given something, you were given an opportunity, you were given all the tools to actually achieve it, you chose not to every you have examples and role models of people who were able to do it and there was a great reward after it, you chose not to do it, that's up to you. That's your choice. And the in

the totality of the experience was explained to you in terms of what was going to happen. And those who don't have that explained to them, by the way, aren't accountable. So this is as simple as that when it comes to the story of life. That's when it comes to issues of evil and destiny, evil and suffering and pain. And I'll talk a little bit about destiny, destiny is a bit more prickly. I came up with I think 35 points, which I'm not going to go through all them I'm going to maybe choose 10 of them and see what we can do. Let's start by talking about dot. I think it's probably the most relevant for you all. And Donna is always an issue because people treat it and I call it the Aladdin

lamp syndrome. Aladdin's lamp syndrome, or you can call even Aladdin's lamp fallacy, if you want at this point is where we treat draw as if it's Jani edge. If you're Aladdin, and you have the lamp and you just want this and you want the genie to come on, give you what you want it and that doesn't work. Like that's not what it is. It never was it was never even explained that way. Like that's not how anyone who actually performed it properly ever understood it like that's an other prophets understood it that now the Sahaba understood it. No one did. We just came along. And at some point, this happens when we come when you come off like 300 years of

systematic ignorance and any occupation and colonialization. You can imagine that the OMA that wakes up Africa is not going to is going to have a lot of misconceptions about their own teachings. And this became what it looked like look DA is looked at as Yanni, that was something he said, he'll use the jib. That means I'm going to get exactly what I want.

Well, that's untrue. Because that's not what do I actually serve that serves as it's no, never what it was.

Right has always been the conversation that exists between the servant and between Allah supply that's always what it's been. You speak to Allah subhanaw taala. And he responds to you. He says, I will respond to you. He promises a response does not promise that He will give you exactly what you want when you want. He never ever promised us Subhanallah but he didn't promise a response. The response comes in different ways and forms. It can come in the form of giving you what you want, when you want it, or what you want a little bit later.

Or something a little bit better than what you asked for at the time or later. Or maybe he removes a difficulty that was coming your way. Or maybe he holds on to it and he gives it back to you on the Day of Judgment like tenfold

We'll do something much more valuable for you on the day when you're being held accountable for everything. There's different ways for Allah spawn to respond to his to your, what you do know for sure is that he will respond to your dive because there is the option that he doesn't. There's an option that your dog is rejected, meaning he's not, he's not acceptable. There's no audio in it and there's no response for it, you're not getting anything in return for seeing it. There is that possibility. So he says, I promise you that I will respond to you. He is promising that if you do this appropriately, there's blah blah, but there are certain rules, you have to ask ALLAH SubhanA wa

Tada. With humility, you have to ask Allah subhanaw taala of that which is possible. You cannot ask him for a miracle subpoena without even miracles ended with the Prophet. It is so twisted revelation of the Quran. They don't happen anymore. I remember one of my teachers said with the example of Muslims asking for Allah subhanaw taala for victory is the example of a single young man asking Allah for a sudden,

go get go get married,

and then maybe ask for a son. But maybe before you do that, you should probably go do what you need to do first, it makes no sense. If you're single, you're saying that y'all love the real solid. You sound crazy, like people think you're insane. How do you think this is going to happen? Like, are you thinking of going to have a son, maybe he watched Disney when they were kids. And he thought this torts and they're dropping children and little baskets through the chimneys. That's not how this happens. You have to have, you can't ask Allah subhanaw taala for certain things that don't make any sense things aren't gonna go anywhere.

You got to throw yourself into into Toluca and then ask Allah subhanaw taala to take you out. Again, throw yourself you can smoke for 50 years. And then when you have lung cancer, you want to love to grant UFC fight for something that has a 20% chance of maybe living two years. It doesn't that's not how this works. You can ask Allah out there, but there are the expectations of what you're asking for have to be tough to make sense. Like there has to be there has to be reasonable. You have to be reasonable in what we're asking Allah subhanaw taala for and we have to be able to see the world for what it is and to see our experience for what it is. If don't work the way most Aladdin's lamp

syndrome people need are those are few words that no one would die. No one would die because we just every time we come to die, ask Allah not to die and then you don't die and then you just live forever. And that's not how it's gonna happen. You're gonna die at some point. It's whether you like it or not, you're going to die. So and you don't want to die. You may ask Allah for you not to die. But but you can and that's why it was selama when she knew when she was making dua. Allahumma McDonough nebe. Is LG or soon to be ugly more.

Sorry, it was a more Habiba. Forgive me. I'm gonna have you wrong. Debbie, Debbie Sofia, she was making her out here saying Oh Allah, I want to enjoy for as long as possible. My husband Rasul Allah and my brother Molly and my father was if you call it, LT la Jalin, nabru button, right. Yeah. I mean, I was up in Moctezuma, I've asked Allah subhanaw taala for things that are decreed pretty, pretty clearly, like you're asking him for something it's already there, like I'm gonna live for as long as I'm going to live, but it's okay to make that dua like it's a dua you can say Hola. Hola, Danny being Danny being me allowing me to enjoy their company for as long as possible that it's a

good dog it's very, very proper to make but it doesn't it it probably was decreed in terms of your life is going to be there. But you're making does not so that you get what you make of the dog because it's a form of conversation. What Allah Subhanallah looks for when you make dua is what your thought process is what is it that you're asking for? What are you afraid of? What are your hopes What are you trying to achieve? And like that is what do I actually is about Allah is gonna get you're expressing to Allah subhanaw taala your plans, your long term plans and short term plans in your and that's where is where you're being judged? You're being judged based on that, because you

can sit there and make dua for haram Right? Like think about that. Like if you think about it, like it's insane, like, I mean, just imagine, if you're asking Allah subhanaw taala to tell you and he wants to commit Zina. You can make dua for they can make dua for you to be able to steal something or make dua for someone to die you ever make dua for some mercy but occurred to somebody you don't like you that dua is not accepted and is rejected obviously off the bat and it's not acceptable. So you have to make the offer something good so that the conversation also forces you to think about things in depth and forces and compels you to be actually figured out what you want to do with your

life and where you're going with and what you actually want and what meat was meaningful and real to you. So that's what do I actually for but we don't know for sure Allah subhanaw taala responds to them with buttons and a manual G when Barbara either dial who we actually flew

for sure Allah subhanaw taala grants ease when there's difficulty and you'll people will make dua to him saponified in moments of severe heart hardship, and he will grant them with for sure this, I'm not even this is not me trying to deny that I'm just saying that you don't build your email and on that, too many people throughout my very short time on Earth have come to me with with with a faith crisis. And most faith crises come that I've witnessed I've come from it from the eyes for this and never happened because they built their email initially on a dot that they made and it worked out. That's what they built their email on, which is why I did this whole course to begin with just so

You don't build your email and on a drive that you made and you got accepted, you build your email and from the four sources of email that we've talked about in this course, the uniformity of evidence that exists out there that clarifies and points towards the Oneness of Allah subhanho wa taala. And the fact that Islam, it offers the only version of who God is, and the only proper law that is not manipulated, that you can possibly possibly follow all over the planet, there is no other option, you can go ahead and you can look, you're not going to find a version of Allah subhanaw taala of God that actually fits what nature and the universe are telling us is are the

attributes of the Creator, you're not going to find a law that is a part of a continuum that has a worldview, that, that is as clear and as as in keeping with the reality of history and has authentic unmanipulated texts, you're not just not there and you can look around, you're not going to find it. Which is why any one of you talk about Islam, we're very, we're very confident about our deen when we talk about it, because we have all all of our ducks in a row like all the basic issues that we require are there other faiths don't have that they're struggling with one thing or the other. Either the version of God that they have in their book is very distorted and just doesn't fit with a

universe that is as vast as the one that we live in. Is it too much after for most of anthropomorphism within their faith, or their text itself is just all over the place. It's not it's not authentic, and there's too many versions of it. And their worldview of other faiths and other religion is not embedded in their law. For us. It's embedded in our deen, there's all prophets that ever were sent to were prophets of God, and they brought the exact same teachings. So our worldview is that all things at one point in history were the correct thing to follow, and then got manipulated and got changed. And now what you're looking at is a version that is no longer authentic

or correct. So you're granted this ability to see things in a very clear with a very clear lens. So it's much easier.

think one of the problems with dua comes back to the fact that

we forget to when Allah responds, like, we think that he's going to respond in a way where the sky is going to split open and something's going to come to us it's going to be miraculous. You make dua for Allah subhanaw taala, for ease, and then maybe a month later, you run into someone by Yanni by, by, by mere luck, just like my luck, you run into somebody or someone offers you a job or something you work in, and you don't even you forget that this, you don't even associate the two is the problem, you don't associate what just happened with the Doohan that you made a month ago, and that Allah says, this is his response to pounce out at your job, because you forgot about it. And it

happened through a human being it happened through an actual mean. So you think it didn't, it was. And this happens, like this is the most common problem that occurs. And it requires you to take to zoom out a little bit and then watch your life and see what happened. And when you do that, you see the signs. And this is a part of your fourth source, which is your personal experiences. When you zoom out and see that it becomes very clear, the number of times you were bailed out the number of times you're granted what you want. Yes, there are a few things you asked for you didn't get when you wanted them. But in the bigger picture, you got way more than what you didn't get. And there's

always a reason for why you what you did, why you didn't get something that you wanted.

I think a good a good way of looking at it is that you don't really know what's best for you. You don't know what's best for you. And no one does. I know what I want. I don't know if it's helpful. I know what I want and have a good rationale for it. And I can probably convince you that this is a really good thing if he gives it to me. So I know what I know. But I don't know for sure if he's gonna benefit me. I don't, I think it will. But I don't know. That's a big difference between what we think is going to be good for us. And what is good for us. It's not the same thing. So when I lost him, how do we make dua to Allah subhanaw taala. And something that doesn't happen? You don't

know whether you were given that thing you're asking for whether it was gonna be beneficial for you or not? You don't know that? I'm not saying it isn't? I'm just saying that you don't know. That's all I'm saying is that we don't know for sure. So when we make drawing doesn't happen, it doesn't necessarily mean that there was something good and he held it backs upon. It doesn't necessarily mean that because you don't know for sure exactly what you're going to do. Have you been given that one thing that you ask for maybe on the Day of Judgment when you go see alasa pond and you ask them why it wasn't given that I asked for it all my life, I never got it. And you Okay, well, here's what

would have happened. And he shows you a horror story and like, well, you know, just I'm good. Thank you for not getting it. You know, there's things that we just we don't know, the future is unknown to us. We don't know whether we get this job or we you know, we marry this person or we have these many children or we live in this place or we don't know if these things are going to actually benefit us. We think they are hope they will but we don't you have no idea what because we don't know what's best for us. We don't know because there's too many variables that are unknown as we move forward in life. So that's a piece kind of to remember when you know when we talk about dua I

think that's what I wanted to talk about it. There's like fear that's good enough for now.

Let's move on to the concept or that was

I think it is very important for Muslims to remember that that you are conversing with Allah subhanaw taala you make dua with certainty, you know that Allah will respond to you, you accept his response, whatever it may be, and you move on, like you keep on and you always make dua, you never give up, and you never stopped doing it. And whatever Allah Subhan, Allah gives you you accept and you know that he gave you subhanaw taala something that is that is hired. And that is something he didn't respond to in dunya, he'll respond to your milky I mean, that should suffice for a human being require more. So the epic or the traditional argument of, are we this is the biggest one that

cobalt and Fedora has in it, it? Are we

free to choose? Or are we gonna say yes or no? Here? This is this has been around for like 5000 plus years? Are we do? Are we free to choose? Or are we programmed and we just kind of follow a an algorithm, which is it that comes in and this comes basically not just from faith, it also comes from but you know, biologists and neuroscientists talk about this, it's called, and something there's something called

is Skinner's behaviorism. And which equals genetic determinism, or biological determinism. They're different different words for the same, the same idea, or they look at us as, as actually programmed mammals that don't really have any freedom of choice, we're just the collective. And the output of our genetics or predispositions, or the conditioning of your neurons. And the conditioning of the society we grew up in. This argument, didn't have a lot of momentum, maybe 100, or whatever years ago, recently, last few decades, it seemed to pick up a little bit more. And the reason I think it picked up honestly, and this is my understanding of is that the only way you can truly, truly, truly

deny God is if you take away from us freedom of choice. Honestly, like those who don't believe at the end, they get cornered too many times. Like it's just too it's too much overwhelming evidence. And, and that's the fourth source of, we're free. The fact that we are free, in my opinion, or my understanding of the world, the fact that I am free to choose by default, just by that fact alone means that there's 100%, someone who put me here 100%, because this universe is dead. It's just this big, massive death everywhere like it's very unwelcoming, by the way outside of this atmosphere, if you want to be projected, or in Zubi, your eyes will pop in your head and you won't be able, you'll

die instantaneously, outside of this little green and blue planet that we're on. Everything else is just, it's just massive death, there's just nothing out there as far as we can tell. And, and I talked to him about the idea, or maybe I didn't talk about it here because I think it's ridiculous. But anyways, if I need to point it out, I pointed out the idea of other life existing, there's fine for us as Muslims, we don't care like I as far as I'm concerned, unless other created an infinite number of creations. And some of them could be with us in this universe, some of the V in a completely different realm. It doesn't matter to me and it does, doesn't really shake my faith or

strengthen it or anything existence of life. But as far as we can tell, there is really no light form as far as looking in every direction. And it's not, for lack of,

of trying it will be people have been looking around for a very long time. What I find really weird is that this theory, or this concept of, of extraterrestrial life, bringing us here on this planet, and being the reason that we're here, and we're waiting for them to come back has, has almost has absolutely no evidence to support it at all. And it's becoming so popular amongst scientific minds. And, and they're using all of these old Jani temples and tombs and drawings on the wall, and they're trying to interpret them in a way that makes it seem that aliens came in this stuff. And it's just so bizarre. It's like anything aside from God? Hmm. Anything like you, you're willing to believe in

anything like, but not but not every creator? Like? And even if you were to explain the world through aliens play by Nene, how does that change the basic arguments that we made when we talked about the universe of life itself? Like, how does that change that it doesn't? Like we talked about when he talks about the existence of the universe, nothing changes, whether there's aliens or not, you still need a forest that started the whole thing. It doesn't, it doesn't change doesn't take away from what we're trying to actually talk about. But it just keeps on going and going. It's really weird. And I don't understand it very much. And I find it to be again, I'm only willing to I

think we have to choose our arguments that we talk about. I think some arguments just don't just don't just aren't worth happy. Yeah, they're fun. Like the multiverse and aliens. It's fun, but it's I think it's only good for a sitcom or for like an anime. Animation. Yeah, new series, something to watch. When you're having your, your dinner before you go to sleep. It just, it's just for the fun of it. But for it to be a serious theological discussion and argument. I mean, there has to be you have to respect people's minds and at least have something to prove what you're talking about, or some evidence or some some suggesting that somehow this is the best explanation for the world that

we live in, and how that explanation is going to change something for us which it doesn't. So the idea of us being again, I don't want to get to the idea of us not having freedom of choice. First of all, it's not

it's not there's no evidence is not supported that in your

logically, biologically, socially or psychologically, it doesn't. Yes, there are a lot of things about us that we cannot control 100% There's so much the hand that we're dealt, there's only a few cards that we can play with the rest of them are pretty much there. You can't you can't play the card, like the card is there, who your parents are, when you were born, where you were born to socioeconomic status you were born in sometimes even like, obviously, your physical appearances and aspects of your IQ. And there are a lot of things about me that I just I didn't control I didn't even choose. And it's not even things that were decreed before I was born none of this stuff. For

the first 10 years of my life, I don't really choose anything, basically. And if you really want to be honest, the first 20 years of your life, you don't really know what you're doing and don't be offended, you see that you don't like it, once you're a bit older, you'll you'll you'll be like, Yeah, I knew nothing back then. And thank you for pointing that out to me. Because you just you're just very again, the world the way it is, it's not doesn't allow us to mature and there's not a problem that, you know, it's not a fault of this of this generation, nor my generation, it's just this is how the world if you're living in the desert, and you know, 35% of all born children will

die before the age of seven, then whoever makes it to the age of 15 was tough, was tough and had to mature really quickly. And not to get along with they're gonna get moving and gonna get wake up in the morning and start running and get things moved. So they're much more mature, much more capable of actually moving forward in life. Now we know life has changed for us. So we can be pet were much more pampered and things takes we say we're not in a hurry to learn anything or carry responsibility or mature or toughen up in any form or manner. So it takes a long time. And the smallest little podcast makes us all cry and requiring any other constant comforting. It's just it's just a very

different reality. Which is why I find like, it's important when we're talking about Islamic law. And we talked about the stories of the Prophet Allah, you saw the sound of Sahaba we have there is an importance of context of the difference of, of the life experience that they had, and the life experience that we're having, in order for you to draw the proper parallels and actually learn from those lessons. So that's, that's an important piece here. We talked about the lack of, of freedom of choice I did. When you look into it, the concept of Skinner's behaviorism, or, or genetic determinism doesn't really hold a candle like it's not and not by religious people. I'm talking

about neuroscientists and psychologists and by a lot biologists, they don't they don't stick. This is not an accepted Yaniv

argument. And another thing is, I mean, I don't really need them to tell them, I don't care what they say. They can say whatever they want, you know, your own experience. Are you programmed? Or do you have the freedom of thinking about things? Are you able to make anything right now? Do you feel like anything is holding you back from making a decision, any decision, think about the different options that are out there, the options that are possible, obviously, you can do whatever you want. At this moment, nothing's holding back. I can take off this killaby and go run outside Yanni half naked in the street, and I can do whatever I want. No one can stop me, no one can hold me back. If I

wanted to do that. Like it's not nothing. There's no force in this world that is pinning me down. Yes, there's a lot of reasons that I'm not doing it. But if I wanted to do it, I could do it.

Right now I'm sitting here talking, I can just turn off the phone and just wail on this guy here until he wills back at me and we one of us dies that could happen. It's not there's no, there's no reason for it not to happen, besides a choice that I'm making a choice that you're making. Of course, that choice is affected by a lot of other things. But the fact that there's a lot of other things affecting our choices doesn't mean that we don't have a margin of freedom, a margin of freedom. That is what Islam talks about a margin of freedom, it never talked about full freedom ever. That was never What are you talking about, there's no such thing as full freedom. There's a

merging of freedom, that margin or freedom is very, very sacred and very valuable.

It's a God given right? Margin or free, no one has the right to take that away from you. Those who do are called tyrants, oppressors transgressors, and those are the people who Gehenna was built for. Because this is yours, you have to make those choices on your own, no one can control you, God didn't control you, for others to control you. It's a margin.

thin margin, it's not a lot of things, which is why Allah says that you have to make really good choices, because you're only making a few few of them. You're not making an infinite number of choices. You don't have an infinite number of options, only a couple of things that you can choose from Choose wisely, because they really do matter. I'm going to hold you accountable for these little choices that you're making. And that's really what this what the Islamic argument is. And that's what makes sense at the end of the day from a biological and psychological perspective.

All right, I'll move on. I think life is more similar to the game of Risk than it is to you know,

what is it called dumb snakes, a lot of snakes and ladders. You could throw the dice. And then that's it, right? Like dictates everything. So life is not Snakes and Ladders. Life is more like risk. You're still holding the dice, you're throwing it, but you're making a lot of decisions with the numbers that you are kind of given without your choice. That's life life. A lot of my hand that I was dealt is different than how you're dealt it.

Seeing a different end than yours, I can't. That's why we can't be compared. That's why we're held accountable on the Day of Judgment alone.

I mean, that's where we're not gonna be held accountable. Full justice requires that Allah takes into account all of the different cards he gave me, and all the different cards he gave you, which is why we're not held accountable as a group. It's not one big group Walkmans here, who fought here, throw these here, put those there were done five minutes during startup? No, it's every person on their own, borrowed that alone. Why? Because you have your hand is not like mine, I can't be held to the same standard you're held. There's basic standards that he explained, I want to heat I want better, I want to tell you, these are the these are the basic laws that he put in the world that

we're all we're supposed to adhere to. But then how we're going to be judged individually is really based on our personal experiences. And that's the important piece that has to be remembered here all the time that we are thinking about it from an exam perspective, if I gave two people two different exams, the one that I get the more difficult questions to I'm going to be able to easier on the one eight, what I judged them or when I evaluate them, or when I go to their evaluation on their paper, and the person I get really easy questions to didn't answer them. They both of them come to me with 60% and the person one, I gave really easy questions to the other ones difficult. I'm going to pass

that one who had difficult questions and fail the easy questions because it really comes down to what what questions you were asked and what you can do adult. That's really the idea here that I think needs to continue to exist in your mind that you're gonna be held accountable alone, don't worry about other people's judgement, worry about your own. This is the only I think I think as Muslims, we kind of struggled with that piece quite a bit.

But we'll come to that in a moment. I want to get through a few things that I think are important when it comes to Allah subhanaw taala is knowledge. This is by far one of the most important, or one of the most common questions that I get my in my line of work

is how does Allah know what we're doing? If we're free of choice? Do they think you've, they've cornered you and they want an argument somehow? Again, this comes from a simple fallacy of projecting your abilities on Gods. Because the only way you can know the future, or the only way I can, let's not talk about you. The only way I know the future is that if something is pre programmed to do some, you need to behave in a certain way. So to get me one of those, you know, those little cars that we buy for kids that you just turned a little thing and then so that's the only way I can say this car will slam into that wall is because it has no choice. And I pre programmed it for it to

go on a certain slant on a certain trajectory and then hit the wall. So that's how I know the future. So if I am arrogant enough to say, Well, God must know the future the way I do, then I'm going to come to the conclusion that I must not have freedom of choice because this portal card didn't have freedom of choice. Well, the nature of Allah's knowledge is not similar to the nature of your knowledge. The nature of your knowledge is the only way you can know the future is through pre programming or patterns. Allah subhanaw taala knows the future without that. I want you to think about this way. I'm gonna give you a few ways to look at this. So that makes it easier for you.

Knowing that a chicken lays an egg, or lays lays eggs or No Not knowing that chickens lay eggs? Is your knowledge of whether the chicken lays eggs or doesn't does it affect the chicken laying eggs. If I stop knowing that chicken lay actually stopped laying eggs, if I know that the link eggs really, you know, know is a sofa, Fer knowledge is not an effective or an affecting

element doesn't affect the actual outcome. Knowledge has nothing to do because we can't but we can understand that because to us knowledge means that I have had no choice, you know, you do have choice, Allah subhanaw taala just zoom out a bit and think he's outside of time, space. Time specifically because the only true measurement in this world is time. Like that's all that really exists. So if he's not a part of time, and Allah subhanaw taala sees all the different possibilities he sees the past and the future and the present all pretty much the same. So for him, it doesn't it's not an issue of controlling you, you just for Allah Subhanallah have already lived your life.

You've already you've done it. But for him, it doesn't make a difference, actually, for Allah and he's done another point. If Allah didn't know the future, then he wouldn't be Allah.

If a God doesn't if there's any god that doesn't, if there's a God for any faith, that doesn't know the future, and that is not a God anymore. Because if you don't know the future, that means there is a small possibility. You can be surprised if you can be surprised, you can be beaten.

he has to know the future in order for him to be alasa So when he says I know all I know what's going to happen in the future, like oh, that's no no, if he didn't, then you'd have to worship him. Like if he came in, I know everything except your future. Well then good luck. I don't need you because if you don't know what's gonna happen next, then you can be beaten. You don't know what's happening next because I'm easily beaten. I have no idea what's happening next time easily. You are easy we're all easily beaten like we can easily be taken down no problem at all because you have no idea what's happening next. So we don't know you can be surprised at any moment. Allah subhanaw

or else it wouldn't you say even even, even logically, it's impossible for him not to

another way of looking at it, you know, when we talked about the multiverse, we talked, we said, you know, it's kind of silly, but let's take an actual, you know, you know, kind of job, but maybe where it's helpful. What the multiverse says is an infinite number of universes where there's an infinite number of you, who are doing an infinite number of things. So every possible, every possibility is being fulfilled as you exist, and infinite number of ways, an infinite number of times, you're making an infinite number of choices at all times, right? So let's say Allah, Allah sees all that

we're just making choices between these options. I mean, he sees all the different options depending on what's out and all the different versions of you. And you can do this or you can do that. So for him, so biodata, nothing is going to surprise him, you're just making choices, I'm gonna do A or B, or C, or D, I'm gonna do D. Okay, so this is the line now. But now you have all these other infinite number of options, he sees them all. So piloti, you just choose a that's another way of looking at it. However you look at it, Allah spy those knowledge of the future is not a problem. It is actually a necessity. Without it, nothing really makes sense. And really no reason for you to believe or

towards dependence upon which it does not affect the fact that you are fully choosing everything that you have.

I believe there's a difference why we're not going to get even close to what I want to get through.

Oh my gosh, so that we're gonna go there's not a comma at the end, and I'll tell you about my differentiation with cobalt. And so when he's used to subhanaw taala, and the Quran the concept of Yeah, Dima, Yeshua, that he guides who he wants, or he wills, or there are two ways to understand this verse. First of all, is that Manisha isn't who want wheels from human beings to heal you guys. He guides, whoever wants to be guided, that's one way. And I think that's a reasonable understanding and explanation. But I don't think it's actually the more solid one, I think the more solid one is that he guides who he wants some kind of whatnot. Like he chooses who's going to be guided and who's

not going to be guided.

Based on what well he says, hola, hola, Gil, calm FRCP Hola, hola. Hola, como volley mean? La Hola, yo, como caffine. And he points out in the Quran, I don't guide those who are who have certain ethical attributes or certain moral failures or certain choices that they're making in their lives. Or if they're resistance, meaning he's a pilot that makes the decision based on and when you talk about guidance in the Quran, when Allah says I guide people I don't guide, it's not in the sense of forcing know, by sending your Cyril who will use the right person or your Cyril who will respond What is your zero means we will ease the path for them will ease the path will open their heart, it

will give them clarity on something, it's not a force, you're still you're still fully going to choose whether you do it or not, you're still going to choose whether it's something that suits you or not whether you want to do it, but he'll ease it for you. And as he died in earshot, as they say, which is which is not a forcefulness upon you just like blood misguidance is not being forced is just a distance between you and guidance. And then you still have the chance to actually make it if you want it to but but that's up to you. So the concept of Allah guiding people versus Miss guiding people is not something being forced on them, it's rather something being eased for them, and then

they're going to make their choice based on it. And that's a very important distinction that you know, in this whole thing, and one of the most important verses in the Quran to kind of bring this up is when he says at the end of the credo Natasha Guna, in Yasha, Allahu Robert, I mean, you only you will only have will, if Allah allows you to. And this is commonly misunderstood as in we don't have will Allah wills for us when this meaning is the literal opposite of that, you saying that you will, because I will do to Will you choose because I chose for you to choose. That's my choice, my choice with that you're gonna have a choice. So you choose. But it's up to me, I can take that back

again, I can take your freedom of choice away, because I chose to give it to you. So now you have it here is that the ability to choose that was my choice. That was my machine that was my will, my will was for you to have a will. Your ability to make choices and decisions. But I can take that about, I can take that back anytime. And that's, you know, that's the Quranic meaning of it. And there's a full cluster of suitors. And I'm gonna just talk about freedom of choice. And I would say it's a good thing for you to maybe to take a look at at some point.

Let's go okay, well finished. I think I'll just finish out there today. And then maybe tomorrow we'll do if I have any will do violence and freedoms. I knew within Islamic law and maybe a few Hadith that are problematic and try to explain them. If time allows. You may not be building too many questions tomorrow, but I get through things. Let's talk about punishment. Punishment is one of the most discussed issues amongst Muslims, non Muslims and believers and non believers in general, the concept of either Jahannam

why it's there and why punishment exists.

I think that question comes from, again, another contextual difference in the life that we're living. If you grew up in a place of war, you wouldn't have this question.

If you grew up under a tyrant, you wouldn't ask this question.

You'd be very thankful that there's your kingdom. Because you it's very obvious to you who was going to be there and they deserve it or not. I think when you live in a time where it's very when it plays where there's a lot of leniency, like don't like the experience that we have, it's harder to wrap our heads around it.

Because the reward is so massive, the punishment has to be equal, in order for there to be a balanced and justice, the melodica don't get anything, they don't get punishment, they don't get reward. If Allah subhanaw taala was to design our experience as inherited, go ahead choose. And here's rewarding, here's punishment, and the punishment was abysmal. And the reward was amazing. It wouldn't be fair for every other creation, like Well, that's, I mean,

choice here is pretty, but when it's equal, meaning that

the massiveness of the enormity of what Jana actually is, is opposed by the enormity of what Jen is there's a balance and there's freedom and there's justice, and that justice is key. It's key. That's why they Juba and and the Samoa and the ottoman, they were offered the freedom of choice, like we don't want it. Because it's an equal, it's an equal chance. This is very much dependent on your choices in life, you have to make the right choices in order for this to work. And it's not a good risk to play. Because if there was no ideology, there's no punishment at all. Why? What would compel you to believe in any of this?

I'm talking about myself, nothing. Nothing if there was no, nothing at all. Like it, there's no I was told there's no punishment at all. I'm good. I'm good. I want to hear six, seven years, seven years, I'm good, I'll enjoy them and die. And I don't need anything. The concept of of Jannah is not as compelling to people. If there isn't No, again, we can't appreciate one thing without the other being there is really very much embedded into our psyche, but we don't have the ability to both of them have to exist. I think what bothers people is not the existence of punishment, I think what bothers them is the infinite aspect of Jahannam the fact that it's on forever.

Now, again, I think there is a point where we can we have to stop we can't go beyond that and questioning certain things because it's a little bit beyond our ability to comprehend. I think this is one of them. But let me add this to your you know, kind of your argument repertoire just for for future references. There is no full agreement amongst Islam Muslim scholars on the infinite aspect of Johanna. There is it's actually like Sahaba like Omar Katara Allahu Anhu. And so you've never been rude and mean naughty, for example, one of the known

one of the known Imams of the time, Abu Hurayrah even Abbas Abdullah bin amor ism. Yeah, there's there's quite quite a large number of scholars who who didn't believe that John num was infinite, but rather was finite, meaning that at some point it was going to end for everyone in it and those who are in it, either they were qualified to go back to where gender is, or they just cease to exist. And I'm not saying that this is something that is agreed upon I'm saying that there's difference of opinion within Islamic law that dates back to the Sahaba it doesn't start like today once we decided that we're going to argue these things. No, it goes back as far as Islamic county

law goes and the reason being that because there are references in the Quran to jahannam not being there forever lebih thena if you Baba, for example, they're gonna be there for a long time. Like the the way that Johanna was described in the Quran. Yeah, at least in fear for bots, unlike Jana is described where it suggests that it's not going to be there forever. And that's what a lot of scholars today actually agree with that it's severe is humiliating, it's painful. That's I'm not that is clear and obvious in the in the scripture. But whether it's there for forever, is something that's up for debate among scholars, is not agreed upon within the Muslim world as far as going back

as far as Yanni as saved an hour and a half out of the low and I think it's something worth at least Yanni thinking about. The last point that I want to share with you is the concept of what they say is ft Carlo genuine not and this is something we do when we don't do very well and we shouldn't do because the Quran talks about how the people of the book before us did it. According to who they said in the surah Allah shake or call it in the solid ACTV who are shaitan each group is saying Oh, you're not going to go with agenda. Oh no, you're not gonna go with agenda? I'll call it when they get to agenda 11 Kinda who then oh no, sorry, they're saying only B so this this ownership on Jen

people find that very hard to accept Well, there's

this number of million people who follow this faith there's a couple of billion that are all gonna go with the giant I'm just gonna look like so this is a very difficult concept for people to accept and to be okay with. When you look at the Quran, this is not very nice. The Quran has a very interesting narrative. They say BM N equals money al Kitab you Miyamoto Su and you just be here well I usually go home and doing a lie What do you want to say oh my god I'm gonna study how to interview in Atlanta one moment for that gets going and Jenna Lacey and then an economist not You're not gonna get your way, nor were the people of the Book get their way. Those who don't do good are going to be

punished and those who do well on their agenda. There's the wording and certainly sounds like it's like word for word. That's there's no other interpretation for any Latina Latina who knows or I was sabe. Ina and Allah he will Yeoman earthly Mohammed asada. He points out surprising to those who are believers and those who are Dena Hadoo from different faith when the surah

The Christians, the Jews are soybean from the other faiths, those who believe in Allah and the hereafter and do will will be rewarded. Now granted, a lot of scholars throughout history have tried to interpret those verses as Oh, that was during their time, or that's if they accept Islam or something like that. But really, the wording of the Quran doesn't really, it's not suggestive of that, like the wording of clients pretty, pretty open. It doesn't mean that we stopped performing Dawa, not at all we have to perform down. He's a little slimy Dean and fella yoke. But I mean, he was very clear those who want to look, look for another faith Aside from his time, it's not gonna be

accepted for them in Medina and Allah Islam, indeed, the true faith and eyes of Allah, Allah Islam. But on the day of judgment, we don't get to say who's going where we don't have a catalogue to actually explain that to us. All we can do is worry about where we're going. There we go, granted guidance or granted Revelation, we have clarity on what we need to do. So we do it where other people go on the Day of Judgment is of it is not it's none of our business, really. And I find that to be a very problematic question to be asked to begin with the people that the categorization of people in dunya is not equal to the categorization of people in Osceola. Right now, in dunya. All I

have is McMann. And Catherine, that's all I have a believer a disbeliever. I don't even have them enough, by the way, because I don't, it's not my knowledge. I don't know who they are. I know that, in fact, because the thing, I fear for it for myself, I warn you about it. But I can't only point out, oh,

may I introduce you to my munafo friend here, I can't, I can't do that to me, unless the person is walking around claiming it to me, it's not something you can do. Either a movement or a golfer, or the day of judgment. There's a lot of other categories.

There's a lot of other categories are the people who were born in a time where there was no faith given to them, there are people who are, who had Islam explained to them in a very problematic manner. So they didn't believe because of that, there are people, there's all these other categories of people that will go with agenda that will go to know, and that weren't necessarily a part of your upbringing, or weren't a part of the group that you surrounded you based on again, the hand they were dealt and the experience that they had, and how Allah so he's going to hold them to it, he has to give guidelines to Pontotoc, where else life is not everything doesn't work, you have to explain,

here's what I will, what I want from you, here's what I won't forgive, here's what I will punish you for, here's what I'll reward you for. And then you take that and you practice it and you preach it and you teach it to others, and then let people live their experiences, however they want to live it, try to save as much as possible. And then on the day of judgment, He will do whatever he wants. So kind of what Donna, you'll judge people based on their experiences, we don't get to say where people are going.

Porn is not designed for that I can't look at a full population and say how many Muslims exist in this country? None. Wow, that's a full country going to Japan, and that's gonna they're gonna have their own little, there's none of my business. And actually, actually, that's most likely wrong. Not most like it's almost 100% incorrect for me to say that altogether, for many, many reasons. And that's something that's an accepted Islamically for a very long time, I don't understand where we came

it takes a lot of arrogance for us to claim something like that. And it is in the Latina, well, Latina hurdle. When nassarawa saw the INA and Medusa, we're living in Chicago. And so to hedge in Allah, if single millionaire home 11pm He talks about all the different groups of people, then we should have key modules, all the groups that are very different than Allah subhanaw taala will judge between them, and they have judgment in every one will be served full justice on that day, and will be treated fairly. And that's really what we have to remember. We're not here to judge people, we're here to guide and teach grant the beauty that Allah probably put on this earth to everyone around

and tried to save them as much as we can and really hope that they find out find Dahlia and work towards that. And where they end up on the Day of Judgment is none of my business. For me to generalize on, you know, huge groups of people that they're going to hand them is very, I don't know where I'm going to even look at a group of people to say Do you know where you're going, if you know where you're going, okay, maybe maybe you can sit around and you know, be a be Judge Judy, and point people in different directions. But otherwise, it's very tiny. It's very pathologic and scary that we're concerned about where people are going when we don't know where we're going. Now, if your

concern is out of mercy, they don't want them to go to jail, well, then good. Get up, pick up that book and go to your job. If you're really concerned about them, not going to join them, then amazing, that'll be a good motive for you to work hard to provide as a Latos law and the Hadith when he walked out of the house of the young boy who would serve him from Al Kitab. This boy was dying and the Prophet Allah al salaam Yanni used to come every day and he do chores for the property would pay him didn't come for a few days. He asked him until he was sick, he went to visit and you find him dying. So he sat beside him as a sailor,

and the father, the child, look at young boys like 15 years I looked at the father wasn't sure brother said, See, whatever I will call him told you to say, he said, you know, in Allah and the Prophet, he sat there for a few minutes and going back and forth and the boy died. He walked out on a Sunday with tears on his face and hamdulillah hell of young father who beaming enough, praise Allah that He saved him from now with me that I was able to help him at the end. So this this driving this drive that driver that we should have of wanting to help people and save

them is very real. It shouldn't be used for judgment, you should be used for saying, Well, why doesn't God know you want people to be saved, then go save. That's what you're here for. That's exactly what you're here for. Otherwise, don't really worry about their, where they're going, worry about where you're going. And to add to that, those, save them not so that they're saved, goes into that you're saved. And there's a really big difference. When we go into we take the crime and try to help others it's not so that we're helping others relief that we're helping ourselves to helping, and just that has to be remembered at all times. And that's why we're doing it, I'm not doing you a

favor by sitting here and talking about this, I'm doing myself a favor. This is all for me, I You owe me nothing. And when you do something like this, you know, no one owes you anything, because you're doing this for the sake of alleging it for yourself, you're trying to save yourself, in a way of doing that is making sure that you acknowledge, I'm gonna end with the idea of Cobra and kajiado. And we'll just leave, you know, violence and personal freedoms and punishments and duniya, stuff like that for tomorrow. If I can get through maybe a little bit of them. I don't know how much I'll get through. But the concept of Karma and takedown and I've made this distinction distinction

before, I think it's worth taking time to think about it. Cola is all the things that you can't control. As an adult, it is the destiny that Allah subhanaw taala has put for you.

God though, is simple. Adam is something either you will fulfill or not, it's up to you, you will put the destiny for you he there's a potential that you have. Either you fulfill it or not Baba, or there's stuff that you can't control. So this color of your skin, your ethnicity, where you came from when you were born, how long you're live, Yanni, what's your look like your name, all these other stuff that you can't really control me just things that you're just given the hand that you were dealt, or the stuff that you actually participate in. And the example I like giving is the example of of someone driving down a road, you're driving down the road is 60 kilometers per hour.

So someone who's driving 60 kilometers, their phone is in their pocket, they're focused on the on the road, they have both hands on the steering wheel, and then someone just jumps in front of them and they hit them that is below. Someone driving a car. Same thing is a 60 kilometer. He's going 100 He's on his phone texting, he hit somebody that's not the law. Nicola, that's either you were destined for that you destined yourself for that meeting, it was just actually if it didn't happen, it would have been Kabbalah. Just to confuse you a little bit, how did it not happen in America, because that goes against the natural consequences. You see, the natural consequences of things you

do is cuddle, the unnatural consequences of things you do. That's the law. But you study all night, you know, or you study all year, and you really know your material. And then somehow you don't make it to the exam or you get sick the night before. You have cold feet, or something and you fail basketball, because you did everything you needed to do. And if you fast us further, you're just in yourself for that. And that's the destiny that allows somebody to help you fulfill. You didn't study at all, you were a complete slob for the whole year you crammed last night you can't understand anything, you go into the exam and you feel that

if you pass basketball, like I didn't deserve any of this, that was an unnatural consequence. And be very careful uncle that happens how you deal with it. And even more careful when Fedora have cut that happens what you do with it, you have to know how to respond to both the law you have to accept there has to be to slim it. This is what Allah Subhanallah decreed

is what he gave me some hope that there's a reason for it, I have to either show perseverance, or I have to show thanks, or how to be aware that Allah subhanaw taala is giving me because he's lost hope in me. So when you continue to sin, yet he continues to give you good things that

you didn't deserve, that there would be you sin and you make mistakes, and you're punished for it. And dunya Allah is when he continues to good, give you good things, that's very dangerous. That means Allah, Allah doesn't care anymore. He's leaving you alone, fine. I've given you 100 signs, stop doing this, you don't want you on dunya here's dunya continue to do what your thing, your trajectory now is in a completely different direction. So you need to wake up and change things. And if I don't is different, but that is your ability, you have to continue to hold yourself accountable when needed. And praise Allah subhanaw taala and see his contribution to the clay that happens to

you when needed as well. So those how you deal with these things that matter, nothing comes labeled. There's no evil and good coming labeled to you in this role. You just come as a trial, you label them as good or bad, depending on how you deal with them. If you're given something that you need to persevere for and you don't, it becomes bad. If you give me something that's horrible, but you persevere, it becomes good for you, you'll notice them. So good and bad are labels that you carry the machine for, you're gonna stamp something good or bad.

It can be easy or difficult. Yes, it can come labeled that way. And here's difficulty. Here's ease. But good or bad. That's your label. You slap it on, and you decide what you want it to be. So that's an I hope that's helpful. But that's kind of my simple breakdown of cobalt and others to help people can understand what they're accountable for a lot of examples, I'm pretty sure you can think of a lot of them figured out maybe where your contribution lies and where your contribution doesn't and, and what when you're not contributing, you need to be very aware of how to deal with it when you're contributing. Also, you have to be aware but in a different way because you're required to kind of

respond to both the both examples appropriately. I'll end with that and show that seven o'clock and we'll continue

Kumar is the last session, and I am unfortunately losing my voice.

I may show up tomorrow, I may not

show up, but I may make it a really quick one. And I just, I can't afford to completely lose my voice before Wednesday. So I'll come tomorrow and will maybe make it if I feel like I'm losing it on me. I may get a short session, I'll just talk about a few things that I feel like I'm doing all right. I'll do a full session and I'll put up

I'll go through some of the questions or some of the comments that were made on the survey. Somebody isn't here to put the survey today, so forgive us, but if some no one wants to survey just maybe communicate. Okay, you're good. I think anyone here not get the survey.

Okay, okay, maybe put it up. There's a few people doing it just to give me some constructive feedback and you're welcome to put some questions in there.

If the question has already been answered, I'll just refer you to the last session that was answered in and if it wasn't answered, I'll try and answer it for you Inshallah, tada. I'm not gonna be hunting.

We also have Allahu wa Salam o Baraka, Libya, Muhammad. Earlier, he was so happy when he's talking to him about a coffee like that.