The Linganore varsity softball team fell to the Urbana High School Hawks 7-2 on April 5, but the game meant more to both teams than determining a potential top spot in the Central Maryland Conference (CMC) Spires division. Instead, the two programs united to honor the memory of a beloved coach and mentor.

On January 11, Jeremy Magers, Urbana assistant coach and father of Hawks third baseman Carly Majers, passed away from a heart attack.

His loss was felt throughout the Frederick area, with players across the county having played for or taken lessons from Magers during his nearly 20-year tenure as a softball and baseball coach.

In particular, the Linganore and Urbana softball teams had a large number of players who had been personally impacted by Magers. For that reason, the teams decided to play their April 5 matchup in honor of the former coach.

Behind the outfield fence of Urbana’s field, the American flag was lowered to half mast to honor Magers and his career as a firefighter for Anne Arundal county. On the field, Magers initials, JM, were marked in chalk on either side of the pitcher’s circle.

After warming up, both teams walked out to the pitchers mound and linked arms. Spectators at the game turned towards an American flag hanging from a Frederick County Fire Department Truck as the national anthem played.

After the playing of the anthem, Urbana assistant coach Nicole Webb  gave a short speech about Magers and his contributions to the Urbana softball program and the greater Frederick community.

Linganore sophomore Siena Phaup said that the tribute was a moving way to honor Magers.

“It was great to see both teams coming together to remember him [Magers],” Phaup said.

Following the memorial to Magers, the Lancers did not fare too well once the game began, allowing five Hawks to score in the first inning. Despite solid defense the rest of the game, Linagnore was unable to make up the deficit, ultimately losing 7-2.

“We just couldn’t get the bats going,” said senior outfielder Emily Ausherman. “We had no spark in the lineup to get a rally going.”

The loss brought Linganore to a 4-3 record, but the Lancers were able to make up for it by winning their next five games over spring break.

The Lancers will be back home on Friday, April 21, when they will take on the visiting Frederick Cadets and also celebrate Linganore varsity softball’s senior night.

You can view the Lancer’s remaining schedule here.