Jalen Hurts celebrates after a win against the Washington Commanders.

The deal makes him the highest-paid player in NFL history by average annual value.

Hurts had a long journey to the NFL, but it paid off in a big way.

Jalen Hurts runs with the ball against the New York Giants.

With his new contract extension, Jalen Hurts is now the highest-paid player in the NFL by average annual income, set to make $51 million per season with the Philadelphia Eagles. Hurts' deal comes after three seasons in the NFL, only two as a starter, but on the back of a run to the Super Bowl and an astounding stretch of play that shot him into MVP contention in 2022.

Hurts' journey from college to the NFL to his huge payday has been quite a ride.

Jalen Hurts runs onto the field ahead of a game against the New York Giants.

In the 2016 season, Hurts led the Crimson Tide to a perfect 12-0 record in the regular season, including a dominant 30-12 win over arch rival Auburn in the Iron Bowl.

Hurts completed 62.8% of his passes as a freshman for 2,780 passing yards, and threw 23 touchdowns against nine interceptions.He ran for an additional 954 yards and 13 touchdowns. At the end of the season, he was named SEC Offensive Player of the Year.

In his sophomore season, Hurts once again was brilliant through the regular season, leading Alabama to an 11-1 campaign.

Jalen Hurts runs with the ball against Fresno State.

Hurts threw the ball quite a bit less in his sophomore year, but he still hit 2,081 yards in the air. He threw for 17 touchdowns against just one interception, showing an impressive improvement in ball security.Hurts also ran for 855 yards and eight more touchdowns. Alabama's only regular season loss came on the road against No. 6 Auburn in the Iron Bowl.

As the No. 4 seed heading into the playoff, Alabama upset Clemson in a rematch of the previous year's final, with Hurts earning offensive MVP honors.

Jalen Hurts lifts the Sugar Bowl trophy after a win against Clemson.

Hurts threw for two touchdowns in the revenge game, while the Alabama defense refused to let Clemson into the end zone. The Crimson Tide prevailed 24-6.

But the championship game was another story. After struggling in the first half against Georgia, Hurts was benched in favor of true freshman Tua Tagovailoa.

Jalen Hurts stands with Tua Tagovailoa on the sidelines during a game against Georgia.

After a missed field goal on the opening drive of the game, the Alabama offense managed just one first down for the rest of the first half. The Crimson Tide trailed 6-0 at the break.At halftime, Nick Saban made a big call, benching Hurts and putting true freshman backup quarterback Tua Tagovailoa under center to start the second half.Tagovailoa was held to a three-and-out on his first drive but found a touchdown the next time he got the ball, connecting with Henry Ruggs III in the end zone.

Tagovailoa led the Crimson Tide to a comeback victory, throwing the game-winning touchdown pass in overtime to DeVonta Smith.

After the game, Hurts embraced Tagovailoa as they celebrated as national champions.

Two years later, Hurts would speak of the benching as one of the most important experiences of his career."When have you ever seen a guy that only loses two games in two years as a starter, goes to two National Championships, wins all these awards as a true freshman, then ends up losing his job? That'll probably never happen again in the history of college football," Hurts told ESPN's Tom Rinaldi in an interview."We gotta win the game. One way or another. I'm always going to be a team guy. Coach, he made the decision that he made, and we were national champions. I'll be able to say that for the rest of my life ... That day made me who I am. I wouldn't change it for the world."

Heading into his junior year, Hurts started the season backing up Tagovailoa, despite having lost just two games as a starter in his college career.

Tua Tagovailoa and Jalen Hurts stand together during practice.

But Hurts stayed sharp all season, and was ready when called upon.

Helping Hurts stay sharp was the fact that Alabama was often winning by so much that Tagovailoa would head to the bench in the fourth quarter.As a backup, Hurts still had 70 pass attempts and eight touchdown passes on the season.

Hurts stepped in and led the comeback, throwing for one touchdown and rushing for another to beat the Bulldogs.

After the game, Hurts and Tagovailoa embraced once again.

"I am really happy for Jalen," Tagovailoa said after the game. "I'm happy that he had a chance here, and everyone on the team knew he could do what he did.""I'm so proud of this guy for what he's done this year, I can't even tell you," he said.

Tagovailoa would recover before the playoff, and lead Alabama back to the championship game to face off against Clemson.

Tua Tagovailoa runs with the ball against Clemson.

This time, the Tigers got the best of the Tide, cruising to a 44-16 victory.

Tua Tagovailoa walks off the field after losing the championship game against Clemson.

With Tagovailoa established in the starting role at Alabama, Hurts announced that he would be transferring for his final year of eligibility.

Hurts opened up about his decision to transfer in an essay on The Players Tribune."Now I'm Bama for LIFE—and that right there will never change!" Hurts wrote. "But now it's also time for me to start a new chapter in my story."I've decided to take my talents to the University of Oklahoma, where I will continue my development as both a quarterback and as a student."

Hurts went to Oklahoma, where he immediately took over the starting job under head coach Lincoln Riley.

Hurts made an impression on his new teammates in the lead up to the season, squatting 600 lbs to the delight of the Sooners.

Oklahoma went 11-1 through the regular season, with Hurts putting up stunning numbers.

In the pass-happy Oklahoma offense, Hurts threw for 3,851 yards and completed 69.7% of his passes. He threw for 32 touchdowns and eight interceptions.On the ground, Hurts was just as dominant, rushing for 1,298 yards and a whopping 20 touchdowns. Just six players in all of college football rushed for more touchdowns than Hurts.

Hurts played his way into the Heisman race, but the award was ultimately won by LSU's Joe Burrow.

Heisman candidates Joe Burrow, Justin Fields, Jalen Hurts, and Chase Young pose with the trophy.

Oklahoma made the playoff as the No. 4 seed but lost in the semifinal to Burrow's LSU.

Oklahoma just never stood a chance in this one, with Burrow throwing seven touchdown passes in the first half to build an insurmountable lead.

Hurts had to wait until the second round of the draft, when the Philadelphia Eagles selected him with the 53rd overall pick.

Four quarterbacks went before Hurts in the draft, with Burrow being selected first overall by the Cincinnati Bengals.

The Eagles had already committed a big contract to then-starter Carson Wentz, but general manager Howie Roseman has always been aggressive in adding quarterback talent.

Carson Wentz throws as Jalen Hurts and Nate Sudfeld look on.

"For better or worse, we are quarterback developers," Howie Roseman said after the pick. "We want to be a quarterback factory. We have the right people in place to do that. No team in the National Football League has benefited more from developing quarterbacks than the Philadelphia Eagles."

After a lackluster year from Wentz, Hurts took over the starting job in Week 14 of the season.

Doug Pederson speaks with Jalen Hurts and Carson Wentz on the sideline.

Heading into 2021, the Eagles traded away Wentz to the Indianapolis Colts, opening the door for Hurts to take over the starting role.

The Eagles went 8-7 in Hurts' 15 starts in 2021, sneaking into the playoffs as a wild card team.

Jalen Hurts jogs off the field after a game against the Las Vegas Raiders.

Hurts threw for 3,144 yards in his first full season as a starter, completing 61.3% of his passes along the way. He threw 16 touchdowns against nine interceptions, and rushed for 10 more touchdowns.

Hurts impressed as a dual-threat talent, throwing for 16 touchdowns and rushing for 10 more.

The Eagles fell to the Buccaneers in the first round of the playoffs, but Hurts established himself as the team’s starter.

Jalen Hurts gestures to the sidelines during a game against the Tampa Bay Buccaneers.

The Buccaneers shut out the Eagles through the first three quarters of action in their playoff meeting, but that taste of the postseason set Hurts up for a big year in 2022.

In 2022, Hurts made the leap to greatness, leading the Eagles to a 14-3 regular season.

Jalen Hurts takes the field for a game against the Tennessee Titans.

In 2022, Hurts made a huge jump in his passing, completing 66.5% of his throws for 3,701 yards in the air, 22 touchdowns and six interceptions. He rushed for 760 yards and 13 more touchdowns.

The Eagles cruised through the NFC playoffs, defeating the Giants and 49ers.

Hurts led the Eagles into a Super Bowl matchup against Patrick Mahomes and the Kansas City Chiefs.

Jalen Hurts and Patrick Mahomes speak at NFL Media Day ahead of the Super Bowl.

Read more: Details you might have missed from Super Bowl media day with the Chiefs and Eagles

While the Eagles came up short, Hurts played one of the best games in Super Bowl history.

In the Super Bowl, Hurts threw for 304 yards and a touchdown, and rushed for 70 yards and three touchdowns.Even in a loss, it was a game for the history books, with Hurts putting up numbers that no player had ever put up before.

In addition to his earnings on the field, Hurts makes plenty of money off the field as well.

Jalen Hurts smiles after winning the NFC Championship against the San Francisco 49ers.

He's a partner with Columbia, showing off their outdoor wear.

Hurts also took part in a campaign with Frosted Flakes.

Champs Sports is another brand that Hurts has a relationship with.

Hurts even has his own brand of gear, which takes advantage of his "Breed of 1" slogan.

Hurts knows how to have fun as well. He's been known to show up at Sixers games, supporting his fellow Philly athletes.

He's also a sharp dresser, showing up to games in some of the best fits in the NFL.

Hurts told GQ that of his first million dollars, he spent around $30,000 on fashion and jewelry. He especially loves bomber jackets.

See more: GQ's interview with Jalen Hurts

Hurts has also put together a rather impressive watch collection in his time as a pro.

In the same interview, Hurts said he donated roughly $60,000 to charitable causes.

Hurts also told GQ he was still driving the same car he drove in college while on his rookie deal. Given his new extension, that might be changing soon.

Hurts also said he put $70,000 aside from his rookie deal to help his younger sister when it came time to pay for college.

Jalen Hurts poses with his family after a game.

With his new contract, Hurts has plenty to spend on more sharp suits, and is set to stay in Philly for quite some time.