Ted Lasso chronicles the story of an American soccer coach in the world of English soccer. The present delves into the challenges and harsh realities that its characters encounter and sacrifices they make in pursuit of success. The newest season of the present tackles the difficulty of the shortage of illustration of LGBTQ+ folks in soccer. This theme is exemplified by the experiences of Trent Crimm, who’s a fan-favorite character on the present, performed by James Lance. This article discusses whether or not Trent Crimm is homosexual in Ted Lasso and summarizes some pivotal moments from the present’s third season. Note that this text incorporates spoilers.

Trent Crimm is first launched in season one as a reporter for The Independent who helps Ted Lasso’s philosophy. In season two’s finale, Trent is fired after he reveals Ted’s panic assault to the general public. In the newest season, Trent joins AFC Richmond’s dressing room as he writes a guide in regards to the group’s newest season in the Premier League.

The third episode of season three paves the best way for Trent’s sexuality storyline. During this episode, Trent discovers that Colin Hughes, a proficient younger participant from Richmond, is homosexual. However, he retains Colin’s secret to himself. In the sixth episode “Sunflowers,” Trent and Colin journey to Amsterdam. Colin sneaks away from his teammates to go to a homosexual bar, and Trent confronts him about hiding his sexuality. Colin denies being homosexual, however Trent comforts him and discloses that he was married to a girl for a number of years till he determined to return out. Trent stored his sexuality a secret even from his spouse and daughter however ultimately embraced himself and appears to be overtly homosexual.

James Lance, the actor who performs Trent Crimm, will not be homosexual in actual life and is married to tv presenter Kate Quilton. However, Lance’s efficiency has acquired reward, and lots of followers lengthy speculated about Trent’s sexuality.

Trent’s journey of self-discovery amplifies Colin’s. Colin is inspired to share his emotions about hiding his sexuality, a pivotal second for each characters. It is unclear whether or not Trent is out to everybody in his life, nevertheless it marked a triumphant second for a big LGBTQ+ subplot on the present.