The new viewer apple Mixed Reality, which the company is expected to present next June at its World Developers Conference (WWDC), will have ‘software’ dedicated to gaming and fitness, and will also be compatible with iPad applications.

Apple will celebrate this annual event for developers at its headquarters in Apple Park, in the United Statesfrom June 5 to 9 of this year. Within this framework, his latest works will be revealed, such as this device, which is called Reality Pro, the brand’s first to combine the virtual reality (VR) and augmented reality (AR) technologies.

The presentation of this device has been extended several times, since it would initially be released in January of this year. Analysts such as Ming Chi-Kuo, on the other hand, anticipated that it would have been postponed for “software-related difficulties”.

Now, the also analyst mark gurman has announced that this device will have a series of tools focused on gaming and ‘fitness’, as well as existing features on the iPad, as sources close to Apple have pointed out to Bloomberg.

The analyst has commented that the manufacturer has focused a good part of its efforts on adapting the applications of its tablets for the new helmets so that users can access them through an interface in three dimensions (3D).

This integration “will include optimized versions of Safari and Apple services for calendars, contacts, fileshome control, mail, maps” and other music and news applications.

In addition, the viewer will feature a version of the FaceTime conferencing service, Apple’s TV app, as well as a version of Apple Books for the viewer and a camera app for viewing. take photos from the device itself.

Gurman has said that Apple is also developing a new special version for the viewer of its Fitness+ service for care and well-being, since it will offer users exercise routines through these glasses.

On the other hand, the brand is also working on the collaboration application Freeform, which supports collaborative work functions on virtual whiteboards through mixed reality.

The analyst considers that “getting application creators to participate” in these services “is key” for Apple, which would justify the presentation of this viewer in the framework of WWDC.