Maradona is pictured with the World Cup trophy back in 1986 after guiding his country to victory in Mexico

Maradona is pictured with the World Cup trophy back in 1986 after guiding his country to victory in Mexico

Eight healthcare professionals will stand trial in Argentina for their alleged role in the 2020 death of legendary footballer Diego Maradona.

The Buenos Aires Times has reported that the Court of Appeals and Guarantees of San Isidro has rejected defence appeals, and ruled that neurosurgeon and family doctor Leopoldo Luque, psychiatrist Agustina Cosachov and six other medical personnel should face trial on the charge of "simple homicide with malice aforethought," as requested by the prosecutors and judges leading the case last year.

The Buenos Aires Times has also reported that all the accused face between eight and 25 years in jail if found guilty.

Defence lawyers for the medics had sought a lighter charge on appeal of "culpable homicide" (carrying a lesser penalty of between one and five years behind bars), but judges upheld the charge sheet drawn up prosecutors.

Defence lawyers can still appeal to the Buenos Aires Province Cassation Court.

No date has been set for the trial of the eight over Maradona's death, which prosecutors say was due to "omissions" by his caregivers who abandoned him "to his fate" during home hospitalisation.

Maradona, Argentina’s greatest and most famous footballer, died aged 60 on November 25, 2020, while recovering from brain surgery for a blood clot.

The judge leading the case, Orlando Díaz, cited a report from the prosecutors in his submission to the appeals court, which described the work of the medical team that treated Maradona as "reckless" and "deficient.”

Maradona is widely considered one of the greatest footballers in history. The former Boca Juniors, Barcelona and Napoli star suffered from liver, kidney and cardiovascular disorders when he died.

He became an idol to millions of Argentines after he inspired the Albiceleste to only their second World Cup triumph in 1986.