Skip to main content

What are you looking for?

Danish Refugee Council (DRC) is an international non-governmental organization, which promotes and supports durable solutions to the problems faced by refugees and internally displaced people all over the world.

The Protection Officer (Legal Analyst) supports Programme Manager and Project Team Leader in leading, coordinating and overseeing all legal research and analysis works within the PSPU project. The legal focus in project is to provide support of local youth in improving their skills and confidence and local women in increasing their capacity in accessing social benefits within selected local self-governments as well as to support LSGs on the youth policy. The position ensures that high quality legal research and analysis are available for developing awareness raising materials, training program and capacity building initiatives within the project.

The position holder contributes towards research on the employment, taxation, and other legal issues for adolescents, research and analysis on youth policy, coaching DRC lawyers to deliver training and other related activities.

Responsible for research and analyze law, by-laws, judicial and administrative practices on issues relevant for DRC program operations within the project

Develop training materials on the basis of legal analysis

Provide legal analysis on youth policy-related information and analytics, responsible for drafting and designing research on youth policy and programmes

Draft and review raising awareness materials and training products on legal issues of adolescents to support local youth groups and create a platform for engagement with local authorities

In coordination and under supervision of a Project Team Leader coaches lawyers on project-related thematic legal issues within designed training programs and project developments

Conduct research and analysis and thematic reports on issues assigned by the Project Team Leader and Program Manager

Provide legal and conflict context analysis for the project purposes

Contribute to preparation of questionnaires and other tools for needs assessment in the relevant areas

Perform other project related tasks assigned by the Team Leader and Program Manager

Work in close coordination with Project Team Leader to ensure that research, analysis, and project related training materials comply with DRC standards and are completed on time

Create and maintain a network of major advocacy stakeholders at the local and regional level relevant for the project

Coordinate work with field lawyers to observe the trends, gather data and facts for advocacy

Support communication and coordination with relevant DRC departments and programmes if necessary

Represent DRC in humanitarian, public and private forums as assigned by the Team Leader or Program Manager

Perform as a resource person for training programmes and drafting training materials

Support the team in carrying out monitoring and evaluation exercises

Collaborate with field lawyers to conduct pilot cases and strategic litigation

Attend DRC internal meeting and Project Consortium meetings if necessary for collaboration and coordination within legal research and analysis on youth and women’s empowerment

Cooperate with relevant focal points inside DRC and Project consortium on regular and ad-hoc basis

Relevant ministries (of internal affairs, social welfare, etc.) if needed

Local communities in Lviv and Kyiv oblast of Ukraine

Key informants and stakeholders in the region

Liaises with key (inter)national NGOs in the country to ensure DRC has up to date information on the humanitarian coordination and response in project areas.

Technical expertise in youth policy and women empowerment promotion and strengthening LSGs in development and supporting of local youth

Complete knowledge of the conflict and displacement related legal policies

Experience in producing high-quality technical and analytical material (legal analysis, training material, assessment tools etc.)

Good skills in cooperation and advocacy towards government officials.

Extensive knowledge of national legislation pertaining to rights of IDPs and conflict-affected population.

Contract length: 3 months with possibility of extension based on available funding.

Start date: As soon as possible.

Contract only for National staff and people who have permanent residents of Ukraine.

All applicants must send a cover letter and an updated CV (no longer than four pages) in English. Applications sent by email will not be considered.

We reserve the right to conduct further interviews before the deadline for submission of applications.

To apply, please click on this following link: https://candidate.hr-manager.net/ApplicationInit.aspx?cid=1036&ProjectId=167932&DepartmentId=19100&SkipAdvertisement=true

For further information about the Danish Refugee Council, please consult our website drc.ngo