Cryptocurrency investors are always on the lookout for new ways through which they can consistently diversify their holdings with new coins and tokens that have high-growth potential and can represent the next major asset within the overall industry.

As of recently, TMS Network (TMSN) has created quite a buzz surrounding itself throughout investor circles, especially after the quick completion of its Stage 1 presale, and has been growing in value.

Today, we will be looking at this new token to see how it compares against already well-established cryptocurrencies, including Render Token (RNDR) and Solana (SOL).

Render Token (RNDR) is a network in which GPU-based rendering solutions are provided in a decentralized way. There are numerous components of Render Token (RNDR) that work in conjunction, including the creators, node operators, the OctaneRender rendering software created by OTOY, and RNDR Credit.

The native cryptocurrency behind the project is known as Render Token (RNDR), and it is used for the payments of animation, motion graphics, or any other type of rendering on the network.

When we go over the value of the Render Token (RNDR) cryptocurrency, on April 17, 2023, it was trading at $1.90.

In regards to its historical performance, in the last 30 days, Render Token (RNDR) increased in value by 22.6%. In the last seven days, its overall increase was by 42.5%, and in the last 24 hours alone, it saw a spike of 9.5% in value. It is clear that Render Token (RNDR) is on a bullish run. However, Render Token (RNDR) is not the only cryptocurrency to grab the attention of investors and traders, as Solana (SOL) and TMS Network (TMSN) have also been huge points of appeal.

Solana (SOL) is a blockchain that utilizes the Proof-of-History (PoH) consensus model that leverages the power of timestamps to define the next block in the overall chain.

The Solana (SOL) platform has, as such, been used as a foundation for the creation of decentralized applications (dApps). The main point of the appeal behind Solana (SOL) is its speed and scalability, as it can process thousands of transactions per second (TPS).

On April 17, 2023, the Solana (SOL) cryptocurrency traded at a value of $25.21. In the last 30 days, its value increased by 15.9%. In the last seven days, the Solana (SOL) cryptocurrency saw an increase in value by 23.6%, and in the last 24 hours, it increased by 3.8%.

TMS Network (TMSN) can revolutionize the trading industry. It can do this through the introduction of a one-of-a-kind decentralized trading platform that provides all users of any experience level access to a high level of freedom in their decision-making process.

Through the utilization of the TMS Network (TMSN) platform, anyone can purchase or even begin trading any derivative, including equities, stocks, forex, and others, with cryptocurrency payments directly.

Another solid feature behind TMS Network (TMSN) is the fact that no account creation process is required. Users of TMS Network (TMSN) can just link their wallets and begin trading immediately.

Through the implementation of blockchain technology, TMS Network (TMSN) provides low latency and on-chain analytics to the trading space. There’s MT4 and MT5 compatibility alongside support for the Copy Trader feature.

The TMS Network (TMSN) token is used for governance, accessing advanced trading features, and getting commissions based on the overall trading volume behind the platform.

At Stage 3, it’s offered at $0.078, and analysts predict that by the end of Q4 2023, it can increase in value to $2.2. Investors and traders can sign up for the presale at the links below to get into the project early before it explodes in value.

Find more about TMS Network here:

None of the information on this website is investment or financial advice and does not necessarily reflect the views of CryptoMode or the author. CryptoMode is not responsible for any financial losses sustained by acting on information provided on this website by its authors or clients. Always conduct your research before making financial commitments, especially with third-party reviews, presales, and other opportunities.