At Coinbase, our mission is to increase economic freedom around the world, and we couldn’t do this without hiring the best people. We’re a group of hard-working overachievers who are deeply focused on building the future of finance and Web3 for our users across the globe, whether they’re trading, storing, staking or using crypto. Know those people who always lead the group project? That’s us.

There are a few things we look for across all hires we make at Coinbase, regardless of role or team. First, we look for candidates who will thrive in a culture like ours, where we default to trust, embrace feedback, and disrupt ourselves. Second, we expect all employees to commit to our mission-focused approach to our work. Finally, we seek people who are excited to learn about and live crypto, because those are the folks who enjoy the intense moments in our sprint and recharge work culture. We’re a remote-first company looking to hire the absolute best talent all over the world.

Ready to #LiveCrypto? Who you are:

You’ve got positive energy. You’re optimistic about the future and determined to get there.

You’re never tired of learning. You want to be a pro in bleeding edge tech like DeFi, NFTs, DAOs, and Web 3.0.

You appreciate direct communication. You’re both an active communicator and an eager listener - because let’s face it, you can’t have one without the other. You’re cool with candid feedback and see every setback as an opportunity to grow.

You can pivot on the fly. Crypto is constantly evolving, so our priorities do, too. What you worked on last month may not be what you work on today, and that excites you. You’re not looking for a boring job.

You have a “can do” attitude. Our teams create high-quality work on quick timelines. Owning a problem doesn’t scare you, but rather empowers you to take 100% responsibility for achieving our mission.

You want to be part of a winning team. We’re stronger together, and you’re a person who embraces being pushed out of your comfort zone.

The International Team in Coinbase is tasked with expanding the presence and reach of Coinbase products to countries across the globe. We enable easy access to fiat payment rails and ensure a smooth and delightful onboarding experience that meets our high bar on regulatory compliance to customers in countries where Coinbase is not currently present. Once the foundational work for giving users access to crypto is completed, we will then start building products that make sense in the context of the particular country/region.

You will join the Trade Readiness team within the  International org, which will work across engineering platforms that are critical for expanding Coinbase across the globe. Your core set of priorities in support of our mission first culture will include:

Going broad in other countries

Innovating with region specific use-cases (e.g. GameFi in SE Asia / SME DeFi financing in India etc.)

Enabling and scaling Derivatives trading and other emerging instruments across the globe

Coinbase is seeking engineers to join the team to build out the next generation of crypto-forward products and features. As a frontend engineer at Coinbase, you’ll help solve unique, large-scale, highly complex technical problems and will build delightful user experiences and scalable frontend systems to make cryptocurrency accessible to everyone across the globe. You'll also work with our security and risk engineering teams to build trust and safety features to protect user accounts, without compromising on the user experience. If you're excited by the problem space of designing and delivering engaging user experiences, building performant user interfaces, and building trustworthy financial systems, we should talk!

* Create trustworthy user experiences by building interfaces that are simple, easy to comprehend, performant and reliable using modern tools like React, React Native, Typescript, React Navigation, Jest and Webpack.

* Add positive energy in every meeting, and make your coworkers feel included in every interaction.

What we look for in you:

* You have at least 3 years of experience in software engineering and at least 2 years of experience in developing web apps and shipping user-facing features with JavaScript and modern, component-based JS frameworks like React.

* You’re familiar with current trends and best practices in front-end architecture, including performance, security and usability.

* You’re familiar with product and design life cycles, and collaborating closely with designers, engineers, and product managers.

* You write high quality, well tested code to meet the needs of your customers.

* You've worked on front-end teams in the finance or security space

* You have at least 1 year of experience in developing React Native mobile apps or helped move existing native apps to React Native

Coinbase is committed to diversity in its workforce and is proud to be an Equal Opportunity Employer.  All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, creed, gender, national origin, age, disability, veteran status, sex, gender expression or identity, sexual orientation or any other basis protected by applicable law. Coinbase will also consider for employment qualified applicants with criminal histories in a manner consistent with applicable federal, state and local law.  For US applicants, you may view Pay Transparency, Employee Rights and Know Your Rights notices by clicking on their corresponding links.  Additionally, Coinbase participates in the E-Verify program in certain locations, as required by law.

Coinbase is also committed to providing reasonable accommodations to individuals with disabilities. If you need a reasonable accommodation because of a disability for any part of the employment process, please send an e-mail to accommodations[at]coinbase.com and let us know the nature of your request and your contact information.  For quick access to screen reading technology compatible with this site click here to download a free compatible screen reader (free step by step tutorial can be found here).

Depending on your location, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) may regulate the way we manage the data of job applicants. Our full notice outlining how data will be processed as part of the application procedure for applicable locations is available here. By submitting your application, you are agreeing to our use and processing of your data as required. For US applicants only, by submitting your application you are agreeing to arbitration of disputes as outlined here.