A motorist from Little Current has been arrested and charged with impaired operation of a vehicle by the Manitoulin detachment of the Ontario Provincial Police (OPP).

On April 9 at approximately 1:30 pm, the Manitoulin detachment of the OPP received a traffic complaint involving a vehicle that was unable to maintain its lane on Highway 17.

Police located the vehicle and conducted a traffic stop. Upon speaking with the driver, police officers observed signs of impairment and the driver was subsequently arrested.

As a result, Christopher Heise, 43, from Little Current was charged with operation while impaired alcohol and drugs, operate unsafe vehicle and possess more than one licence.

The accused’s vehicle was impounded for seven days, and his driver’s licence was suspended for 90 days.

The accused is scheduled to appear before the Ontario Court of Justice in Espanola on May 15.

The Northeast region of the OPP laid a total of 593 traffic initiative violation charges over the Easter holiday.

“OPP members across the Northeast region were busy on the Easter weekend keeping our highways safe for motorists traveling during the Easter holidays,” a press release states. “The annual traffic initiative’s focus was on seatbelts and took place from April 7-10. Most motorists were observed wearing their seatbelts and driving safely, however a heavy police presence on the highways wasn’t enough to deter a minority of drivers who continue to engage in unsafe driving behaviour.”

OPP officers made a total of 1,280 traffic stops and extended 582 warnings over the Easter holiday break.

The following is a list of preliminary traffic related charges laid over the weekend: seatbelts, 37; impaired driving, nine; stunt/racing, five; Cannabis Control Act, four; other provincial traffic offences, 171; driving suspensions, four; speeding charges,306; distracted driving, five; Liquor Licence Control Act charges, five; Compulsory Automobile Insurance Act charges, 50; and one other Criminal Code offence.

“OPP members also investigated two fatal collisions, one involving a snowmobiler and the other involved two commercial motor vehicles that resulted in three deaths,” the OPP reports.

“Road safety is everyone’s responsibility. Do your part and focus on driving when you get behind the wheel of a motor vehicle. We want everyone to arrive home safely,” said Sergeant Carlo Berardi, media relations coordinator for the OPP Northeast Region.