For meaningful development to occur in institutions of higher learning in the country, an adjustment in students’ tuition fees is necessary for ivory towers to realize their dreams.

This forms part of the submission given by the Former Vice Chancellor of Osun State University, Osogbo, Professor Labode Popoola.

Popoola who spoke on Tuesday as a Guest Lecturer at the 27th Convocation of the Ekiti State University, EKSU, Ado-Ekiti stated that the recent increment of Tuition at EKSU is one of the means to achieve a sustainable system in the Institution.

The convocation lecture is titled “The University System in Nigeria and the Sustainability Question”

The Professor of Forest Economics and Sustainable Development noted that fund mechanism is a necessity for sustainable development and payment of staff’s salaries in the Institution.

Professor Popoola noted that funding education is not a charity programme, hence the need for a tuition hike for the adequate running of the Institution.

Part of the sustainability mechanisms recommended by the Professor includes curtailment of corruption in the educational system, good governance, research and Innovation, Partnerships and outreach, and Alumni involvement, among others.

According to him, “It is a fact that public Tertiary Institutions in Nigeria do not charge appropriate economic/realistic fees.

“Funding of education is not free anywhere in the world, governments can not do it alone. Emotions can’t solve this, we have to be pragmatic.

“It’s a joke to say that universities should not charge fees. The increment is for the betterment of everyone, it’s for the adequate and sustainable running of the Institution like payment of staff’s salaries, development in the University, among others.”

On his part, the Vice Chancellor of the Institution, Professor Edward Olanipekun commended the Professor, noting that the Varsity is putting every mechanism in place to make the system sustainable for all stakeholders.

The VC, therefore, said the Management has decided to have a stakeholders summit and have chats with Parents, Students, and other stakeholders on the way forward.