A Man Utd star whose future looks increasingly uncertain could be offered a return to his most recent former club this summer, per reports.

The Red Devils are expected to address three primary positions in the market this summer – centre-forward, central midfield and right-back.

That’s according to the Athletic who claimed signing a high calibre number nine will take precedence.

On that front, Tottenham’s Harry Kane and Victor Osimhen of Napoli remains in the club’s sights. Back-up options understood to be under consideration include Randal Kolo Muani and Mohammed Kudus.

Erik ten Hag’s current options for the role are Anthony Martial, Marcus Rashford and Wout Weghorst. However, Rashford is equally as effective when cutting in from the left wing, while Weghorst is only on loan and Martial is among those believed to have been put up for sale.

Weghorst has led the line more than any other since his January arrival from Burnley. United secured a six-month loan deal after forging an agreement to cut Weghorst’s own loan spell at Besiktas short.

The Dutchman can hardly be called prolific having notched just two goals and three assists in 22 appearances for United. However, his willingness to press and link-up play have appeared to earn Ten Hag’s trust.

Weghorst’s deal does not contain an option to buy, meaning Man Utd must negotiate from scratch if they’re to sign the frontman from Burnley outright this summer.

However, according to the Sun, Weghorst is once again being eyed up by Besiktas. Furthermore, a second report from Goal suggests Weghorst’s chances of earning a permanent gig at Old Trafford are waning.

TRANSFER GOSSIP: Man Utd lead race for ‘first-choice’ defender target with four to leave; Liverpool dealt double free transfer blow by Mourinho

Firstly, the Sun report Besiktas are ‘lining up a second deal’ for Weghorst. The 30-year-old operated at a goal every other game while in Turkey in the first half of the campaign.

Burnley would prefer to sell Weghorst rather than sanction another loan. That makes a deal difficult for Besiktas, though aiding their cause is the fact a permanent move to United is looking unlikely.

The Sun add Ten Hag and co. are ‘unlikely’ to try and retain Weghorst beyond his loan. Goal add their take to the story, claiming the player’s lack of end product is behind that new stance.

With Man Utd no longer looking an option and Burnley wanting rid, a return to Turkey may well be on the cards if compromises are made.

MASON GREENWOOD: Man Utd forward ‘decides to leave England’ as transfer to European giant beckons