We are excited to announce that we have partnered with award winning accountancy software provider Capium.  Their state-of-the-art cloud based accountancy practice software will allow us to offer a number of exciting new benefits to clients. In addition, we can provide their bookkeeping software direct to our clients.

After an in-depth review of the accountancy software market, we have decided to team up with Capium.  Their impressive cloud based software won the prestigious Accounting Web “Practice Suite of the Year Software Awards 2020”

We have invested in the whole suite comprising of;

Harries Watkins Jones director, Chris Jones commented, “What swung the final decision in favour of Capium is the way they are continuously taking feedback from users and improving what already is excellent software.”

We are honoured to be awarded approved partner status with Capium and look forward to building a strong mutually beneficial relationship. It is anticipated that we will go live on 1 April 2023 in time for the new tax year.

Arguably the most exciting aspect of the suite is their cloud based Bookkeeping Module.

It is rich with features such as;

We will be able to provide 1 to 1 training and give advice on switching from other packages such as Sage, Xero and Quickbooks. Of course, being cloud based, we can easily access your records whenever you require assistance.

Prices will be very competitive.

To reassure clients, we believe in providing the information needed to make informed decisions.  So naturally will continue to provide support and training in alternative bookkeeping packages.  Whilst Capium is outstanding it will not be the best solution for every client, we would be keen to explore all options with you.

We operate a payroll bureau to assist clients meet their PAYE legal requirements.  Like all our services this is evolving to meet changes in legislation and client preferences.

The Capium payroll software functions means that we can now provide access to clients, on request, to enter details directly such as hours, expenses, mileage claims etc.  This functionality has been requested by some clients and we are delighted that we can now deliver it.

There will also be additional options to how reports and payslips are available.  Including using the Capium Hub, please see below.

For a number of years, we have given our client’s the option of approving various documents, such as accounts and tax returns electronically.

In today’s every busy and digital world this has rapidly been a preferred option for many clients. We are pleased to say that this option will not only remain but will become more user friendly.

Capium Hub can operate as a secure document exchange facility.  On request we can grant clients access to the Hub whereby both them and us can upload and securely share documents.  If you use Capium Bookkeeping then it its functionality is further enhanced.

Some of the standout features include;

Capium Secretarial means that we will also have access to a streamlined electronic means of forming companies.  If you are in a rush to form a company this will be an advantage that you will relish!

If you are unsure of what to call name your company this blog on rejected company names may be useful!

We are proud of our client service standards and always seek to tailor solutions to client’s exact requirements.  If you are interested in any of the above and have questions just let us know.  In particular if you would like advice on the Capium cloud bookkeeping or any other for that matter then please get in touch .