(CTN News) – Although they got hurt on the glass in their first round series with the New York Knicks, defense wasn’t their biggest issue (just 101 points on 95 possessions) as the Cleveland Cavaliers lost Game 1.

As a result of their defense on Tuesday, they were able to even the series. A total of 60 points were scored by the Knicks on 69 possessions (0.87 per possession), which was their second least efficient game of the season.

Despite putting together a 30-point fourth quarter, the game had already been decided.

Cavaliers’ defensive performance was a result of a more aggressive scheme against Jalen Brunson.

Despite leading 13-6 midway through the first quarter, the Knicks only scored once on their next seven possessions, the one basket coming off a live-ball turnover. A pick and roll was blitzed and trapped by the Cavs during that stretch:

Following Brunson’s release, the Cavs rotated well behind the trap and Toppin missed a contested runner over Cedi Osman.

After a few possessions, Evan Mobley blitzed Brunson on an empty-corner pick and roll, once again removing the ball from his hands. As Brunson disposed of the ball more quickly, the Cavs rotated well behind the blitz, with Donovan Mitchell covering Isaiah Hartenstein’s roll and Darius Garland attempting to get around a screen to deny a swing pass to Quentin Grimes:

During a Toppin-Grimes two-man game, Garland and Osman both put in more effort, and Garland drew a charge when Grimes attempted to drive to the basket.

A total of 105 ball-screens were blitzed by the Cavaliers over the course of the season, according to Second Spectrum tracking.

The Knicks did not blitz once in Game 1 of the series (with 42 ball screens set up for Brunson by the Knicks). In Game 2, they blitzed nine of the 31 ball screens set for the Knicks’ point guard.

On Tuesday, Brunson took 17 shots, but only made five, perhaps in order to avoid facing a second defender.

Julius Randle’s ball screen gave Brunson a more capable outlet when the Cavs brought two to the ball when he was able to drive by the blitz on occasion.

It is important to note that the Knicks’ offensive success was limited, and the Cavaliers swarming, sometimes trapping Brunson and Randle at the same time:

Due to the presence of two rim protectors in their starting lineup, the Cavaliers are able to be aggressive on the perimeter.

In addition to giving up some open shots on the weak side, the Knicks shot 35.4% on 3-pointers in the regular season, and they rank 25th in passes per 24 minutes of possession (300).

Even though both of these teams ranked in the top eight offensively during the regular season, neither has been able to score efficiently during this series.

In Game 3 on Friday (8:30 p.m. ET, ABC), the Knicks must get Brunson back on track by setting fewer screens and letting him play one-on-one with the opposition.

Bruins Beat Panthers 3-1 In Game 1 Thanks To David Pastrnak