I’m perfectly happy spending lots of time alone. As a highly sensitive person, I find solitude to be a balm for my soul, especially when the world is too dark and loud. But even though I enjoy my own company, there are times when I crave community. After all, even lone wolves need the pack from time to time.

But how do you find your right “wolves” when you’re a highly sensitive person?

That’s something I’ve been working on for most of my life. Along the way, there have been plenty of missteps and hard lessons. Some packs seemed safe until an aggressive member showed their fangs. I’m a lover, not a fighter, so these incidents made me shy away.

Online groups seemed like a solution, but social media can be another place where highly sensitive folks need to step carefully. Nonstop ads, twisted algorithms, and cynical types make it feel like you’re constantly moving around potential landmines. People wear all sorts of masks online, so it’s hard to determine who is a true friend and who is a foe waiting for their gotcha moment.

It’s too easy to crawl back into your sanctuary and remain an observer when shit like this goes down. But it’s not always healthy to shut out the world. Even shy types need human interaction.

Here are a few tips to help you find community in a safe way if you’re a fellow highly sensitive person:

1. Don’t be afraid to try new things, even if you’re going outside of your comfort zone. The best place to start is by examining your interests and letting them lead the way. For example, if you love tarot (who doesn’t?), seek out fellow tarot fans in your neighborhood or online. Common interests are a great way to begin building community.

2. Look for fellow introverts and highly sensitive types in group settings. You’re more likely to understand each other – and respect boundaries.

3. Take your time getting to know people. Even if you “click” with someone immediately, don’t rush the process. A slow hand will help you determine if this person might be for real or a shit disturber.

4. Be very careful with people who “love bomb.” Sure, it can be exciting to think someone really likes the cut of your jib. But I’ve found if someone comes on too strong, they turn problematic later. Plus, these sorts of folk can be exhausting for introverted types.

5. If you are interacting with people in real life, make sure you have an exit plan. For example, let’s say you’re attending an event such as a conference, which can be an excellent way to meet like-minded folks. If you begin to feel like you’re getting “peopled out,” you might excuse yourself with a scheduled nap time or phone call. (I have learned it’s best not to share a room in these situations so I can have my escape – plus uninterrupted alone time.)

6. Online communities require a lot of vetting. These are often places that get toxic quickly (hence, you’ll rarely see me interacting in a Facebook group). It’s best to observe quietly for a while before diving in.

7. Know when to walk away. For me, I cannot spend a lot of time with cynical types or constant complainers. I avoid those communities like the plague. You might find you don’t like being around “huggers” or loud folks who need a lot of attention. Be aware of your triggers – and get the hell out. You don’t have to explain your exit either. Just go. (Because I’m quiet, most people don’t even notice my absence! Ha!)

Lastly, if you find a community you love, make an effort to strengthen those relationships. Relationships require tending, but it doesn’t need to be 24/7 maintenance, which is unhealthy and unrealistic for highly sensitive types. Simple text messages, occasional hangouts, or Zoom meet-ups can build friendships in a healthy, safe way. Do whatever feels comfy and allows you to be your authentic self – just make sure you do something. That way, the people that “get you” will keep a spot in the pack reserved for you.

A beautiful tribute to Rachel Pollack: Rachel Pollack, Transgender Activist and Authority on Tarot, Dies at 77.

My own goodbye to Rachel.

From the always wise Lisa Stardust: How To Date, According To Your Star Sign.

Great read: The Aspiring Cult Leader’s Missing Art and the Nephew Obsessed With His Legacy.

The privacy-minded social network at the center of the classified documents leak.

Good question: Is There Life After Influencing?

If You’re Skilled at Reading Tarot Cards, Here’s How to Make It a Side Hustle.

I love her: The Danger Of One Man’s Opinion: Gretchen Whitmer On The Abortion Pill Ban.

Check this out from Cosmo: What Questions Can You Actually Ask Tarot Cards?

Aliza Kelly lays down the cosmic dirt over at The Cut: Yeah, It’s Time for Mercury Retrograde Again.

Monica Lewinsky on Losing Her “Portrait Virginity” to Marilyn Minter.

From Jessica Wildfire: We’re All Preppers Now.

Loving this from Publishers Weekly: Give Me a Sign: Six YA Authors on the Power of Astrology and Tarot.

Thinking about this: Is Therapy-Speak Making Us Selfish?

Wow: The Case of the Fake Sherlock.

Sonia Choquette has a new deck coming out next year: Ask Your Guides Oracle Cards.

I know a few people who might like this: Date, Love, Marry, Avoid: Find Your Soulmate.

Intriguing: Tasting History: Explore the Past through 4,000 Years of Recipes.

Coming soon: Awakening Your Psychic Ability: A Practical Guide to Develop Your Intuition, Demystify the Spiritual World, and Open Your Psychic Senses.

I love their calendars and almanacs: Llewellyn’s 2024 Magical Almanac: Practical Magic for Everyday Living.

If you’re a highly sensitive person, you might enjoy this book: Confident Empath: A Complete Guide to Multidimensional Empathing and Energetic Protection.

This oracle deck is one of my new faves: Clairvoyant Oracle: Connect with Your Divine Guidance.

Check this out: Brujas: The Magic and Power of Witches of Color.

For tarot lovers of all levels: The Weiser Tarot Journal: Guidance and Practice. It has stickers!!!

My newest book drops this fall: The Cards You’re Dealt: How to Deal when Life Gets Real (A Tarot Guidebook).

Don’t like your current path? Learn how to use astrology and tarot to find a better one: Twist Your Fate: Manifest Success with Astrology and Tarot.

Kids love tarot! Here’s a deck just for them: Tarot For Kids.

Learn how to read tarot like a pro with Tarot: No Questions Asked: Mastering the Art of Intuitive Reading.

Prefer to listen to your tarot lessons? Check this out: Tarot: No Questions Asked: Mastering the Art of Intuitive Reading is available as an audiobook.

For astrology newbies who feel overwhelmed I suggest this: Astrology for Real Life: A Workbook for Beginners (A No B. S. Guide for the Astro-Curious).

There is an audio version if you prefer: Astrology For Real Life.

If you need new tarot inspiration, here ya go: The Uncommon Tarot: A Contemporary Reimagining of an Ancient Oracle.

One of the best ways to learn tarot is by coloring through the cards. Start here: The Tarot Coloring Book..

Yes, the world feels like a dumpster fire. But you can remain strong and resilient: Tarot For Troubled Times. It has rituals, magic, meditations, and Tarot spreads to keep you strong and inspired.

Here’s a sweet little kit you might enjoy: Create Your Own Tarot Cards: A step-by-step guide to designing a unique and personalized tarot deck.

As an entrepreneur, there are 1,000 items on your to-do list. But what should you prioritize and do…in the next week? Find out with The Astro-Biz Digest. It’s an astrology newsletter especially for self-employed peeps. Comes out every Sunday. Sign up here: The AstroBiz Digest.

**NEW** Looking for an alternative to social media for your astrology or tarot fix? Sign up for my SMS service and get updates right on your phone: Sign up here.

Intro to Tarot Card Reading. Get introduced to the basics of Tarot reading with this foundational class. When: Saturday, April 29th, 2023, from 9:00 AM – 4:00 PM CST. Hosted by the Infinity Foundation via Zoom.

Join my Patreon Community!  For just $10 a month, you can get oodles of tarot and astrology goodies – including a hot date with me on the 1st of each month. I do a video broadcast and discuss all the important astrological dates coming up soon. Get more details and sign up: Patreon. Treat yourself!

Time away from the computer

My Silver Lining by First Aid Kit

*Some of the links are affiliate links. I receive a small fee if you purchase, but this does not affect the price of the item.*