California has beckoned to artists, environmentalists, money makers, stars, and free spirits alike since it was named the 31st state in 1850 – and probably well before that too. The Golden State seems to offer something to everyone, and certainly every new generation of young professionals. And they're definitely not the only ones who want to live in California. After all, it wouldn't have the highest number of residents of any state in the U. S. if it didn't have plenty to recommend it.

One thing California is not, however, is top of the list of the most affordable places to live. And it has suffered a population drop because of it. However, all is certainly not lost. ‘Zillennials’ (loosely defined as those born between 1993 and 1998), in particular, are still flocking to California cities for young people. While they are much more price-sensitive than generations before them due to student loan debt coupled with the high cost of living, the cheapest California cities recognize this – and are working to make themselves as appealing as possible to the zillennial micro-generation.

What are the best California cities for zillennials? Keep scrolling for our top five picks for cool, cheap, and affordable places to hang your hat – and make your mark – in the beautiful state of California.

There are almost 1600 California cities for zillennials (or anyone else!) to choose from, so buckle up for our selections of small cities, big cities, and in-between cities for our top Zillennial Cities: California Edition! If you were born in the mid-90s and are ready to see which California cities for young people should top your list, you are in the right spot.

San Diego is considered by many to be the best of the best. The combination of a glorious climate with beautiful beaches, ample job opportunities, and a relatively low crime rate make it quite clear why it's referred to as "America's Finest City."

While it's not one of the cheapest cities in the world, zillennials love it because of its low median age (34.9), easy access to Mexico, and impressive food scene. Beachfront neighborhoods like eclectic Ocean Beach or lively Pacific Beach compete with stylish enclaves like North Park for zillennials' rent and entertainment dollars, but there are many neighborhoods to choose from – each with its own set of pros and cons. Regardless of where they end up within the city borders, however, zillennials interested in getting out into nature for entertainment and exercise would be hard pressed to find lovelier sand and surf than in San Diego.

No list of California cities for zillennials would be complete without mentioning Santa Clara, a safe and welcoming "urban suburb" located 45 minutes south of the Bay Area in the heart of Silicon Valley. While most definitely not one of the cheapest places to live, the city is nonetheless full of young people. Formerly a Spanish mission, Santa Clara is thriving thanks in part to the high salaries commanded by its tech workers. In fact, the area is known to have the most millionaires and billionaires in the country.

Zillennials looking for the prestige and paychecks of a career in tech will feel right at home in Santa Clara, though we would be remiss not to mention the steep cost of living in the area. The sacrifice may be more than made up, however, by the availability of high-paying jobs, the area's amazing Mediterranean climate, easy access to San Francisco, and proximity to hundreds of area wineries. As one of the top California cities for young people, Santa Clara can't compete with small town home prices in other areas – but the huge amount of opportunity it offers goes far in making up for its cost of living.

About 60 miles north of Santa Clara lies "The City by the Bay" – beautiful, elite, and costly San Francisco. Though it could never be called one of the cheapest California cities, the gem of the Bay Area has nonetheless attracted up-and-comers for generations. Today, Gen Z (and its zillennial counterparts) are moving to the area more than any other group.

When it comes to shopping, dining, entertainment, and job opportunities, there is little the Bay Area lacks. The dense urban population is set off by beautiful ocean and mountain views, street art, parades and festivals, farmers markets, historic homes, and beautiful parks. The LGBTQ community is also at the heart of San Francisco, and has been since at least World War II, which certainly adds to the city's welcoming vibe and expansive array of cultural activities. As Rudyard Kipling wrote, "San Francisco has only one drawback – it's hard to leave."

While Irvine in Orange County is primarily known as a city for well-to-do families, its centralized location means it's less than two hours from skiing, surfing, mountain biking, and diving locations. It's important to note, however, that Irvine has no bars or clubs to speak of. While young people may find this lack of nightlife a drawback, it is close enough to Newport Beach, Tustin, and Costa Mesa to scratch those itches without too much of a hassle.

The reason we chose Irvine as one of the best California cities for zillennials is its safety, climate, and unbeatable proximity to some of the most outstanding beaches and outdoor areas in the country. The city is well-maintained and family-friendly, which is also a draw for more-established zillennials looking to settle down. While somewhat lacking in culture and entertainment, the city keeps a pulse on younger generations through its bustling UC Irvine campus and proximity to both San Diego and Los Angeles.

Last (but certainly not least) is Sacramento, the capital of California and a definite draw for zillennial hipsters and young people in search of careers. With median home prices among the lowest in the state, and relatively quick commute to Lake Tahoe and many national parks, Sacramento is slowly shedding its gritty image for a more polished and professional feel.

One of the top draws for zillennials and other young people is the city's brewery, winery, and coffee scenes – all of which are key to the city's vibrant feel. Sacramento is also known for its diversity, low cost of living (relative to California, of course – it's still more than 20% higher than the national average), professional sports teams, and premiere educational offerings. While maybe it's not yet

topping the list of California cities for zillennials, Sacramento is nonetheless an extremely worthwhile locale for young people – and the activities they love.

There you have it: our official list of the best California cities for young people – zillennials in particular. While each offers its own pluses and drawbacks, you can be certain that settling down in any of them for the short- or long-term would be an adventure worth having.

Did we miss any of your faves? Check out the resources below for more info and advice:

Best Neighborhoods in LA: The CubeSmart Moving Guide – CubeSmart.com

The Best Places for Young Adults to Live in California – California.com

2022 Best Suburbs for Young Professionals in California – Niche.com