Manila, Philippines | April 18, 2023 – Uy, summer na! Together with the scorching heat that challenges us every day, we need something to beat it with – whether it be planning a beach getaway, a trip to Baguio, or buying the latest appliances to keep you cool without leaving the house. Home Credit holds the answer to your summer needs this year, from electronics to the newest gadgets that you dasurv, they have it all!

Home Credit Philippines, the shopping partner of every Filipino, is coming in hot with its big summer blowout! Products ranging from gadgets, cooling equipment, and home appliances are now made more accessible at 0% interest rates that will not just keep you cool, but your budget and wallets heat-free, too!

Make this summer the most fantastic and coolest one ever. Who says you have to go far this summer to please yourself, the family, and the barkada? Home Credit lists down some items that you definitely dasurv and will bring you a cool vibe this summer. Check these items below now!

Are you going to let the summer heat keep you down? One way to keep cool this summer is to drink the most refreshing drinks. Stock up your Sharp Two-Door J-Tech Inverter Refrigerator with ice-cold beverages that will keep you energized throughout the day! Its No Frost technology automatically adjusts and controls the temperature and humidity level inside the refrigerator, saving you from future frosting stress!

If you cope with the summer heat by eating frozen treats, Toshiba’s Two-Door Inverter Top Mount Refrigerator might become your best friend. Together with a Dual-Cooling Zone, allowing you to cool food items faster and feel the cool, icy breeze when you open it, this refrigerator may be for you.

Is the summer heat taking away the excitement to go out? Everyone deserves their own cool place to hang out and feel refreshed. Haier’s Split-Type Air Conditioner is equipped with a UVC generator module that will keep you safe and cool throughout the day. It also has the ability to self-clean and has a faster and much more powerful cooling performance, saving up to 63% of energy.

Staying indoors is also a trend this season, simply because it’s cooler inside. Together with LG’s Inverter Window Type Air Conditioner, keep the four corners of your home comfy. Enjoy LG’s innovative inverter technology that’s both powerful and quiet, and saves up to 70% energy when used!

Everybody has their own way to keep cool and celebrate summer, whether it’s by buying a new item or chilling in the comfort of their homes. For staycationistas, the LG Smart 4K UHD TV is the right upgrade for you! It easily gives you the power to effortlessly stream movies and TV shows from your favorite entertainment apps in a new standard of high definition using your home wireless network.

For our resident multitaskers who prefer to enjoy the beach and work at the same time, on-the-go gadgets are the right fit for you! Acer comes through with a feature-packed Aspire 5, powered by the latest processors and graphics to give a crisp multitasking performance that will definitely not leave your work and screen frozen.

Hustling work and life during the summer vacation is not an ordinary thing, so make those extraordinary memories last with a mobile phone built for everyday life. Oppo A96 must be your reliable best friend this season because not only has it passed a lot of environmental tests, but this phone is also dust and water-resistant!

So, what’s the hold-up? Be summer ready and get those well-deserved purchases now! Visit the nearest Robinsons Appliances and Savers Appliances and get those summeresque purchases all at affordable costs, low-interest rates, and free last installments through Home Credit because dasurv mo ‘to!

To know more about the latest updates from Home Credit Philippines, visit its official website www.homecredit.ph. You may also follow its official Facebook, Instagram, and TikTok accounts. Customers are also encouraged to download the My Home Credit App on Google Play to learn more about the latest promos and see what’s new in the Marketplace.

Home Credit Philippines is a financing company duly licensed and supervised by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and by the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP).

Liked this post? Follow SwirlingOverCoffee on Facebook, YouTube, and Instagram.