KINGSTON — As promised, Hutton Brickyards reopened this spring under new management.

The resort off the banks of the Hudson River was shut down this winter after flood waters inundated the property in late December, causing a stir when the owners had to cancel guest reservations in the middle of the holiday season. Storm surge from the river caused “massive flooding” and damage throughout the site, requiring it to be shut down, according to Karl Slovin, president of MWest Holdings Inc., which owns the property.

“It was a disaster,” Slovin told the Times Union in January.

Flooding from a storm surge in late 2022 forced Hutton Brickyards luxury resort, located a few miles from downtown Kingston on the banks of the Hudson River, to shut down for the winter season. It reopened this spring under new management.

At the same time, the property’s management company, Salt Hotels, dropped it from its portfolio for reasons that weren’t immediately clear. Slovin at the time conceded that the departure of Salt Hotels and the flooding were somehow related, but said he couldn’t say more because of litigation.

But now Hutton, still owned by Slovin, has a new manager: Waterford Hotel Group of Connecticut. The resort officially reopened on April 6 and is out now with spring promotions available until the end of the month.

“Waterford was selected due to its more than 35 years in the hospitality business, excellent reputation, and their familiarity with the Kingston market,” Slovin said in a news release. “We’re excited to partner with them.”

According to the Hutton Brickyards website, patrons can dine at the property’s Edgewood Restaurant and Bar Thursday through Saturday, but The Airstream — which offers sundries for campers — and The River Pavilion — an open-air restaurant — remain closed. The Waterford Hotel Group announcement in late March said more details about the restaurants would come later.

Hutton Brickyards in Kingston reopens under new management

Camptown: A Catskills hotel that blends new with old

Tolls for Hudson Valley bridges will increase on May 1

Waterford also manages the Residence Inn by Marriott in Kingston.

Hutton Brickyards, a luxury resort in Kingston, reopened this month after flooding shut it down last winter. The property is also under new management, Waterford Hotel Group of Connecticut, which also manages the Residence Inn by Marriott in Kingston.

The Hutton resort first opened in 2021 on a 70-acre riverfront property that was the former site of Hutton Brick Works Company, which operated from 1865 to 1980. Last year, editors at Travel + Leisure magazine hailed the resort as one of the best 100 in the world, highlighting its preserved character and elevated hospitality experience.

A few miles from downtown Kingston, the resort features a seasonal spa, restaurant, more than 30 luxury cabins with waterfront views and hiking access. Its newest addition, Edgewood, has 12 guest rooms, including some luxury suites, and a restaurant. Hutton Brickyards bills itself as “a rambling and imaginative retreat for getaways, experiences and events.”