It’s impossible to overstate the popularity and influence of Flashdance back in 1983. The surprising hit struck a chord with audiences and became the year’s third highest-grossing film. Its slick visuals, backed by a killer and iconic soundtrack, helped shape the music video MTV aesthetic that dominated the era. That soundtrack also nabbed nine Grammy nominations (including Album of the Year) and won three. That’s quite an impressive list of achievements for a film that’s just simply okay.

Much of the film’s problem has to do with the laughable dialogue (yes, I realize it is the 80s) and sanitized and cookie-cutter narrative. At the same time, Flashdance is one of those films that’s more style than substance. Director Adrian Lyne seems more inclined to create the most rad “music video” than make a compelling film.

Flashdance was Jennifer Beals’ first movie (she was previously a model) and her most well-known flick. She is attractive, easygoing, and charming, but unfortunately, she doesn’t have much range. Several scenes require some intense emotion, and she is flat or over the top. Yet, despite some of these issues, you still root for Alex’s success because Jennifer Beals’ charm makes it impossible for you not to root for her.

Overall, Flashdance is a perfect example of a movie better known for its impact on pop culture than what you’re watching. The film became a staple of the ’80s and is often imitated—even today. Also, who hasn’t heard of songs from the soundtrack like “What a Feeling” or “Maniac?” There’s a reason why Flashdance was nominated for Oscars more in the technical and musical categories than the more “prestige” categories. The film as a whole is adequate. Yet, people can’t deny its impact on pop culture and its significance as a prime example of the 80s.

Flashdance hits Ultra HD Blu-ray with a Dolby Vision/HDR10 transfer and a 1.85:1 aspect ratio. Flashdance has several scenes with a brightly lit white background, and the picture contrast keeps the bright areas brilliantly crisp while keeping the darker areas a deep black. The Dolby Vision adds some depth and dimension to the picture too. The dark spots and shadows are a deep black. However, you lose some shadow details in the darker areas during the nighttime scenes.

Dolby Vision also raises the picture’s color saturation and makes it looks vibrant. At the same time, colors are healthy and authentic, with normal-looking skin tones that don’t look peached out or too hot. For a film that’s forty years old, the movie looks fantastic, and the picture is crisp. The finer details like glitter and makeup texture during the strip scene are distinct throughout. Film grain is present throughout, which adds to the vintage 80s aesthetic.

Flashdance hits Ultra HD Blu-ray with a 5.1 DTS-HD Master Audio track. For the 40th anniversary release, Paramount seems satisfied to recycle the same 5.1 DTS-HD audio track from the 2013 Blu-ray release. Now that’s not necessarily bad since the DTS mix is superb. However, since the track is now ten years old, it would be nice to have an audio mix that’s current with today’s technology. Nevertheless, the DTS-HD audio track prioritizes the film’s fantastic (and iconic) soundtrack. So every dance sequence and montage, the soundtrack’s pop songs dominate the soundstage and immerses the audience within the music.

Atmospheric effects appear as necessary and are accurate to simulate natural immersion. Also, the vocal clarity in the dialogue is crisp and distinct, except for a few minor hiccups. Fortunately, these are few and far between. Overall, the audio mix is a music showstopper and an audibly pleasurable experience from beginning to end.

Flashdance‘s Ultra HD Blu-ray disc has no special features. However, you can find the following special features on the 1080p Blu-ray disc:

* The Look of Flashdance

For the Ultra HD release, Paramount decided to use the same bonus features they released for the 2020 “Paramount Presents” Blu-ray release. Even then, most of the supplemental content from that release came from the 2013 Warner Bros release of the film on Blu-ray. It’s disappointing to see from an anniversary release, but that seems to be the MO from studios these days.

Nevertheless, Filmmaker Focus features director Adrian Lyne looking back at the film’s production, ranging from Flashdance‘s themes and style to its influence on pop culture and music. A holdover from the WB release, The Look of Flashdance, features the filmmakers discussing the movie’s visual style, particularly the costumes. Another holdover from the Warner Bros. release, Releasing the Flashdance Phenomenon, has the filmmakers examining the movie’s theatrical release and its surprising success.

Overall, Flashdance is a nostalgic film that everyone should watch just for its impact on pop culture alone. Yet, as a film, Flashdance has a lot of flaws and is simply a fair movie. The video presentation is exceptional and highlights Donald Peterman’s excellent cinematography. Despite the lack of Dolby Atmos or DTS:X, the audio presentation is equally strong. Unfortunately, fans will grumble at the absence of bonus features once again.

Flashdance is now available in stores on 4K Ultra HD Blu-ray.

This Blu-ray was reviewed using a retail/advance copy/unit provided by Paramount Home Entertainment.