An 8-foot alligator was removed from the basement of a Philadelphia home after a couple decided they wanted him out.

RELATED STORIES: Elderly Florida Woman Killed While Protecting Her Dog From Alligator

Big Mack was rescued by ACCT Philly earlier this week after resident Yali wanted him out of her home after he had lived in the basement for more than a decade. “My husband had him since 2011. We’ve had him all these years, been in the basement,” she explained to CBS News. Yali said Big Mack used to be smaller but grew 8 feet 127 pounds while living in a makeshift enclosure.

LISTEN: The Wyoming Avenue homeowner who called ACCT Philly to please come & pick up the big alligator in her basement. She & her husband separated, so she wanted his pet removed from the house. Was she afraid of the gator, “Yes, hopefully you find a nice home for him.” pic.twitter.com/CErNyYzWKH

WATCH: 8 foot long alligator taken out of North Philadelphia rowhouse. 1/3 pic.twitter.com/jEKqjlBbYu

ACCT Philly was hired to remove the alligator from her basement, and they wrestled him out of his enclosure. Big Mack was tied up and hauled from the house by three animal control officers. This is the animal shelter’s third alligator rescue this month.

RELATED STORIES: Florida Man Survives At A Swamp For Three Days After Alligator Bites Off His Arm

Big Mack is temporarily staying at ACCT until they can find suitable transportation since the plane they booked was too small for him, so now officials are looking for a sanctuary that’s close by.

“We’re going to find placement for him. That’s going to give him the space and the care that he needs,” said executive director Sarah Barnett.

Owning an alligator as a pet without a permit is illegal in Pennsylvania. According to Pennsylvania’s Fish and Boat Commission, alligators are classified as “restricted wildlife species” and require a permit to be owned.

To obtain a permit, you must meet certain requirements, including having a secure and suitable enclosure for the alligator, having a veterinarian available to provide medical care, and passing an inspection by the Commission.

It is important to note that alligators can be dangerous animals and require specialized care. Therefore, owning an alligator as a pet is not recommended for most individuals.

ACCT Philly said they would not file criminal charges for people who own alligators and would rather them reach out for help.

Additionally, several people questioned how the alligator was being fed and why Yali kept it in her home if she and her husband were separated.

Hmmm, so it grew over the past 12 years yet they decided to keep it? He’s mad but doesn’t live there. Why didn’t he just take it with him? Struggling to see why making it a house guest made sense?

2 things: what was he feeding it? Animals, local pets? 2nd thing: the stench must be horrific.