The next meeting of Vashon’s Community Council will take place at 7 p.m. Thursday, April 20, in person at the Vashon Land Trust Building, and at the Zoom link, tinyurl.com/bdd6bth6. Speakers will include John Taylor, Director of King County’s Department of Local Services; Chrys Bertolletto, on the King County Flood Hazard Management Plan; King County Sherrif’s Office Captain George Drazich, on human trafficking and plans for a new rehabilitative treatment center for addiction on Vashon. See the events page at v-mcc.org.

The Vashon Tool Library is holding a tool sale from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Saturday, April 22. The sale will be held at the Tool Library site in the building next to Open Space for Arts & Community. A wide variety of surplus tools in working condition will go for excellent value, and all proceeds will fund the Tool Library and its programs.

Join Dig Deep Gardens for an Earth Day event filled with musical performances and art from 11 a.m. to 8 p.m. this Saturday, April 22, at 19028 Vashon Hwy. (See page 9.)

The Vashon-Maury Island Garden Club will host a free May Day Basket workshop, led by Michele Baber, from 1 to 3 p.m. Thursday, April 27, at Dig Deep.

Traditionally, May Day baskets have been created out of old calendars, magazines, or wallpaper, mason jars, and woven baskets, and filled with flowers, plants, a few sprigs of heather or candy and then secretly delivered, on May 1, to friends or family.

At the workshop, the club will provide cone-shaped paper baskets and a variety of crafting materials. Feel free to bring additional items to create a distinctive May Day Basket.

Zero Waste Vashon’s annual electronics recycling collection will take place from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m. Saturday, April 22, at Vashon High School. Enter via the east lot, by the Vashon Pool. (See page 8 for more details).

Accepted items include computers, laptops, monitors, ink cartridges, CDs, DVDs, cassettes, printers, fax machines, keyboards & mice, servers, routers, televisions, DVD & CD players, VCRs, audio components, radios, cellphones, telephones, cameras, electronic games and small electronics. Place small items in a bag for easy handling.

Items not accepted include large rear screen projection TVs and no appliances except microwave ovens. No large commercial copiers, miscellaneous metal boxes, cabinets or devices. (Metals can be dropped off at the transfer station for free.)

There is no charge except for CRT computer monitors and CRT TVs, which are $10 per item.

Donations are accepted. To volunteer at the event, sign up at tinyurl.com/vpf6u9wr.

Having a roof over your head is a pretty important priority for a sustainable life. Unfortunately, there seem to be fewer roofs to go around. Join Truman O’Brien, Bruce Haulman, Craig Beles and Kevin Jones at 11 a.m. Tuesday, April 25 on Voice of Vashon, 101.9FM, to hear Jason Johnson, Vashon HouseHold Executive Director and Osha Christianson, Vashon HouseHold Home Share Coordinator, talk about creating more affordable housing.

Join Vashon’s Ferry Advisory Committee at 7 p.m. Wednesday, April 26, at Vashon Library, to hear critical updates about current plans for the trial of the three-boat Triangle route, the Fauntleroy dock plans and other service-related issues and enhancements. The meeting can also be attended via Zoom, at tinyurl.com/25rhhskw.

The annual membership meeting of Vashon Senior Center will take place from 1 to 3 p.m. Friday, April 28, at the Senior Center, at 1004 SW Bank Rd. Masks are required at the meeting. Written motions are required to be submitted to the board secretary, at board@vashoncenter.org, by April 18. RSVPs are also requested for the meeting so that organizers can plan to move to a larger venue, if necessary. RSVP to board@vashoncenter.org or call 206-463-5173 by April 24.

The deadline to become a member, with voting rights, is also April 24.

Members may vote in person, by e-mail, by mail, or by written proxy submitted to the Board Secretary at board@vashoncenter.org. Members may attend general meetings remotely. However, those attending by remote means must submit votes in writing prior to the Annual Meeting. Please notify the center, at the email or phone number above, if you will require a Zoom link to attend.

The Vashon Friends of the Library is hosting a fall book sale from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. on Saturday, April 29 in the Vashon Library’s conference room. Items on sale include fiction and nonfiction, children’s books and Young Adult novels, wellness and self-improvement books, cookbooks, gardening books, and rare vintage books.

Donations of gently used books (contemporary literary fiction, recent nonfiction, cookbooks, gardening books, and large paperbacks) in good condition can be dropped off during library business hours beginning at 10 a.m. Friday, April 28. There is a two-bag limit.

Lend a hand from 9 a.m. to noon Saturday, April 29, and help clean up the Chautauqua Ponds. Volunteers will prune back blackberries that are choking previously planted natives and spend the day pulling invasive weeds, which will make the ponds more appealing for islanders hiking the Chautauqua forest. The Beall Road expansion gate will be open for easy access. Bring work gloves, loppers, and any other useful tools. Contact Amy Bogaard at 206-406-9774 or email aogaard@vashonsd.org with any questions.

The Care Closet’s barns at 18623 Vashon Highway S. W., are overstocked, so from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. Saturday, April 29, the organization will host an open house and give away surplus medical equipment and supplies including walkers, crutches, shower chairs, compression socks, salves and much more. All are invited to attend and learn more about the work of the Care Closet, one of several lending organizations on Vashon celebrating National Library Week.

Local dentist Marc Langland and staff will hold a day of free dental care and cleanings for low-income people who do not have dental insurance on Friday, June 2. To get on the list for care, call Hilary Emmer, at 206-463-7277 by Friday, May 5.

Bring gardening questions, plant samples, and/or plant photos to the Vashon Master Gardeners outside Ace Hardware from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. every Saturday from May 6 through Aug. 26, and First Fridays May through Sept., for free science-based advice. For more information, contact the Vashon Master Gardeners, WSU Extension at mgvashon@gmail.com.