SBTRKT shares the brand new single “L. F.O.” featuring Sampha and George Riley, sharing another track off his forthcoming album The Rat Road, set for release on the 5th of May via AWAL. SBTRKT will headline his first sold-out show of the year at Outernet in London on May 25th.

“L. F.O.” sees SBTRKT enlist the help of longstanding collaborator Sampha and the burgeoning R&B multi-artist George Riley. The duo’s vocal contributions are layered atop metamorphic synthesisers and sporadic injections of intricate drumwork, the latest single is an undeniable full-circle moment as SBTRKT unites with Sampha for the first time in seven years. “L.F.O.” deftly follows the release of the hypnagogic single “Days Go By” featuring Toro y Moi, “Waiting” with Teezo Touchdown and “FORWARD” ft. LEILAH, which was first previewed in the video for Drake and 21 Savage’s “Jimmy Cooks” music video.

SBTRKT speaks on the single: “L. F.O. began with me messing around with an analogue synth about 6 years ago – the track title stuck (L.F.O. – Low Frequency Oscillator demo 1). The opening chords became my breakthrough moment, which captured that feeling when chords and melodies feel like they float.

Sampha dropped by my studio around 2018 – was excited by the sonic palette of it and so we laid down some vocal ideas. Over the time since, I have probably past 70 different versions of this song!

Late 2022, I got in touch with George Riley after following her music and the rest started to drop into place! Sometimes songs take 5 minutes and some 5 years to find the right components!

Much love to Sampha for getting involved and being a constant through all my albums – over more than a decade on from our first work together – and to George Riley for being up for experimenting and creating music that doesn’t have to fit any rules. Sometimes the pieces find their way together and make sense texturally without forcing a concept on it.”

May 25th – London, UK @ HERE at Outernet (SOLD OUT)

June 7th – New York, NY @ Brooklyn Steel

June 13th – Los Angeles, CA @ El Rey

June 14th – Los Angeles, CA @ El Rey

Aug 19th – London, UK @ Field Day Festival