When windows of opportunity for a road trip open up, we empty nesters are ready to travel. Be it a day trip, a weekend-long trek, or a vacation journey, we’ll load up our vehicle with necessities and hit the road.

Last week on my Tuesday Tour, I shared our day trip to Latrobe, Pennsylvania, home to the famous children’s television personality, Mister Rogers.

Today’s highlight features a lovely spot, Unity Chapel, we encountered during our search for Fred Rogers’ grave in Unity Cemetery.

As we entered the cemetery grounds, we passed this historic red brick chapel. After locating the mausoleum where Rogers and his wife were laid to rest, we drove once more past the chapel and of course, I asked my husband to stop and park our car so I could capture some photos.

What I didn’t realize at the time was the long history Unity Chapel has until I performed some research. Back in 1766, two Presbyterian missionaries visited the Latrobe area, a frontier region at the time.

They began holding worship services for what became known as the Unity congregation on a farm in the area. In 1774, founder of Pennsylvania William Penn’s  grandsons deeded 60 acres to Unity trustees to construct a “meeting house,” which was a log church building, and burial ground.

Unfortunately for that congregation, the log church was destroyed by fire in the winter of 1829-30. Its members then constructed a larger red brick church in 1830.

By 1874 though, that building was demolished and replaced by another smaller red brick church. (The back of Unity Chapel is pictured below.) By that time, Latrobe had become settled, and a Presbyterian church was established in town where more people worshipped.

Eventually as the congregation diminished, the church dissolved in 1920, resulting in the building becoming unused, even though it was placed under the auspices of the Unity Cemetery Association.

Then Unity Chapel’s history became even more interesting. Because they noticed the chapel was uncared for when visiting the cemetery, two members of the Pittsburgh Mellon family began a restoration project during the 1930’s. That too soon came to a close.

However, another community member stepped up to raise funds for Unity Chapel’s restoration in 1950. A local businessman and philanthropist, his name was James H. Rogers, father of Fred, later known as Mister Rogers.

Yet another fund drive was established in 1984 to renovate and make repairs to the chapel. Contributions came from descendants of previous Unity members as well as members of the Latrobe Presbyterian Church congregation, the Mellon family and foundations, and members of the Rogers and McFeely families and foundation.

Another native of Latrobe, professional golfer Arnold D. Palmer granted a special gift to Unity Chapel in 2001-02 in memory of his wife. In addition to a front gate, a granite memorial including three bronze plaques detailing Unity’s history and a grounds map, was erected through his generous donation.

Today, Unity Chapel, located at 130 Chapel Lane, Latrobe, is used for special services, funerals, and weddings. In the summer, early worship services are held at 8:30 a.m. from Memorial Day Sunday through Labor Day Sunday.

Although the chapel was closed when we visited, we noticed the building’s beautiful windows.

They captivated me and I could only imagine how lovely they must look from the inside of the chapel.

And those windows remind me that I must make the most of all windows of opportunity that come my way.

Opportunities to travel either near or far. Opportunities to view something of beauty either man-made or of nature. Opportunities to learn something new from something old.

“Each day, life will send you little windows of opportunity. Your destiny will ultimately be defined by how you respond to these windows of opportunity.” ~ Robin S. Sharma