Winnipeg, Manitoba, April 19, 2023 — The Misericordia Health Centre Foundation (MHCF) and Winnipeg Humane Society (WHS) launched the return of One Great Lottery last week and the jackpot is already climbing. Known for its affordability and fantastic early bird prizes, One Great Lottery makes winning big accessible while supporting two great causes.

One Great Lottery prizes have something for everyone, offering affordable ticket prices and exceptional prizes like Gas, Groceries and Home Maintenance for a Year. The main goal is to provide funding for compassionate care and programs that benefit all Manitobans through the work of Misericordia Health Centre and Winnipeg Humane Society.

* Deadline April 27 – Groceries for a Year: $15,000 in Red River Co-Op food gift cards or $10,000 cash alternative

* Deadline May 4 – Home Maintenance for a Year: $2,000 gift card for residential home cleaning services from the Beautiful Home Co. and $3,000 gift certificate for lawn care and snow removal from Green Blade Lawn or $3,000 cash alternative.

* Deadline May 11 – Gas for a Year: $10,000 fuel gift card from Red River Co-Op or $8,000 cash alternative

And of course, the Grand Prize Winner will take home half of the cash jackpot which is currently at $62,000 and growing with every ticket purchased!

“We are excited to be back together in this incredible partnership launching One Great Lottery again this year! This is the lottery for the people, so thank you so much to all Manitobans who made this possible. You all believe in what we do at the Winnipeg Humane Society and at Misericordia Health Centre Foundation and we know you love purchasing tickets to support these two great causes.”

“Thanks to your invaluable feedback and suggestions, we’re thrilled to offer an improved lottery experience this year, while keeping our ticket prices incredibly low and accessible. Each and every prize was handpicked to deliver true value to the winners during challenging times – you won’t want to miss out. Good luck to everyone!” – Kris Gladwell, President and CEO Misericordia Health Centre Foundation and Jessica Miller, CEO Winnipeg Humane Society.

PLUS, the fan-favorite Great Cash Calendar is back, and now available to be purchased with One Great Lottery tickets or separately! The Great Cash Calendar was a smash hit last year, and there are 61 more prizes to win this Summer. Win $1,000 a day from June 1 to July 31!

Tickets are limited for the Great Cash Calendar draw – only 197,190 tickets up for grabs!

Don’t miss out on your chance to win big while making a difference! Purchase tickets today at www.onegreatlottery.ca and follow One Great Lottery on social media for updates and announcements.

ORDER NOW online at www.onegreatlottery.ca

or by phone at 204-788-8458.