Faith Notes ~ Sandi Miller: Where is God When Your Chil...

Was Your Resurrection Morning Like This, Jesus?

“Now on the first day of the week, very early in the morning, they, and certain other women with them, came to the tomb bringing the spices which they had prepared. But they found the stone rolled away from the tomb. Then they went in and did not find the body of the Lord Jesus. And it happened, as they were greatly perplexed about this, that behold, two men stood by them in shining garments. Then, as they were afraid and bowed their faces to the earth, they said to them, “Why do you seek the living among the dead? He is not here, but is risen! Remember how He spoke to you when He was still in Galilee, saying, ‘The Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and the third day rise again.’ ” ~ Luke 24:1-7, NKJV

“Yet indeed I also count all things loss for the excellence of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and count them as rubbish, that I may gain Christ and be found in Him, not having my own righteousness, which is from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which is from God by faith; that I may know Him and the power of His resurrection, and the fellowship of His sufferings, being conformed to His death,” ~ Philippians 3:8-10, NKJV

Many Did Not Receive Him

Lord, was Your resurrection morning like this? Dawn breaking over a world in chaos, people blinded by corruption and deception? Was there a complacency, a pretense of righteousness among the religious that hardened their hearts and puffed out their chests?

You came Lord Jesus to set the captives free, to open prison doors, and heal the brokenhearted. You came to comfort those who mourn and give them beauty for ashes.

You came to reconcile us to a holy God and place Your robe of righteousness upon our shoulders.

But many did not receive You.

They expected You to arrive on a stallion, not a donkey.

Please forgive me for the times I do the same — demanding my own way of understanding. I try not to. I try to trust when I don’t understand, but many times I fail.

Yet You call my name and draw me back into Your love and minister peace to my weary soul.

I Wonder if the Earth Stood Still, if Only for a Minute

This morning I listened to the birdsong as the earth awakened in shades of lavender and apricot. Light streamed over the ridgetop bursting through the darkness. Was Your resurrection morning like that, Lord? I imagine beauty beyond comprehension as all of creation broke out in glorious praise for its victorious King.

I wonder if the earth stood still, if only for a moment, as You stepped across the threshold of the tomb. Did the religious feel a quickening in their spirits? Did the chaos abruptly cease with wonder unable to continue its destructive behavior for just a moment? Did the earth rejoice because death had lost its sting and redemption was made manifest?

I think so! The Word doesn’t tell me that, but my heart does. Lord, when You step into a situation, things change. When Your power is released, no one can stand.

Oh, what a beautiful Savior You are!

On Your resurrection morning, all of Your promises began to unfold for those who would believe. The darkness in the hearts of man became undeniable light as they bowed their knees before You, their risen Lord.

Oh, Jesus, thank You for Your love that holds me secure in the difficult places. We live in evil days, yet You, O Lord, have full authority over all the earth. Make Yourself known. Rise up, O God, and scatter Your enemies.

I will praise You, Lord, for You alone are worthy of all praise. You are the King of kings and the Lord of lords! Blessed be the Name of the Lord!

In the Name of Jesus, I pray,

Amen ~ let it be so

Was Your Resurrection Morning Like This, Jesus? @NanJonesAuthor #recognizingGod #amwriting #resurrection #Easter #Heisrisen #doyouknowHimClick To Tweet

Please don’t carry your burdens alone. I would be honored to pray for you. You may contact me directly at nan@nanjones.com

Thank you so much for stopping by. I would love for you to share what’s on your heart in the comments below. Scroll a little farther down and you’ll see where you can leave your comments. Together, we can find the nearness of God in our darkest moments.

Finding God’s Presence ~ What Can Happen When We Bump Crazily Into One Another?