LEXINGTON, KY – The Rotary Club of Lexington held its weekly meeting Thursday, April 4, at the Mane on Main, Chase Bank building on Main St. The program’s guest speaker  was Andrew Shenkan, Chair of the Rotary Club of Lexington’s Membership Committee. The title of his  presentation  was Rotary Club of Lexington’s Membership Check-In!

This meeting was also be on Zoom. For the Zoom link please email, trafton@rotarylexky.org.

If you would like to have lunch, please contact Jenny@rotarylexky.org  to reserve your meal.

It is no secret that changing demographics and generational shifts have for some time posed significant challenges to nonprofit organizations, a situation only worsened by the recent COVID-19 pandemic.  Replacing aging members from the baby boomer generation is undoubtedly a topic of conversation at board meetings across the country.  Your Rotary Club of Lexington is no exception and rest assured that Club leadership spends significant time and energy ensuring that we continue to add new members that represent our entire community and bring to the table the needed diversity of talents and viewpoints.

Today’s speaker, Andrew Shenkan, leads our efforts in this arena from his position as Chair of the Membership Development Committee.  A veteran Rotary leader, Andrew brings to the task, energy, vision and humor, all of which you will experience today as he discusses his committee’s work and the roles that we can each play in recruiting members.

Andrew Shenkan was appointed VP/general manager of WLEX-TV, the NBC affiliate in Lexington, Ken-tucky, in April of 2020, after serving 14 years in the same capacity at KATC-TV, the company’s ABC affil-iate in Lafayette, Louisiana. This is Andrew’s second time living in Lex-ington as he was WLEX’s director of sales and marketing from 2002 to 2005.

Andrew became a Rotarian in 1989 and joined the Rotary Club of Lexington in August 2020, transferring from the Rotary Club of Lafayette. In Lexington, Andrew currently serves on the club’s Mem-bership, Greeters, and Past Presidents Committees. While a member of the Lafayette club, he served as club president for 2012-13 and held mul-tiple positions as both a club officer and on the board of directors. He was recognized as the Rotarian of the Year and received the Vocation-al Award for Excellence during his 14 years in Lafayette. Andrew also served as membership chairman of Rotary District 6200 for three years and is a multiple Paul Harris Fellow recipient.

Andrew is a native of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and is married to Nan-di’ Shenkan, whom he met at the Rotary Club of Lafayette and who is also a Rotarian in our club.