If you have even the slightest interest in creative writing and your university offers a creative writing workshop, take it.

Despite changing my major countless times, questioning my career goals and ultimately landing on a career path devoid of creative writing, poetry has remained a profound passion of mine since before college. A monumental reason I have been able to maintain that passion is creative writing workshops.

Though I am an English major, the major (surprise, surprise) turned out to predominantly consist of analytical and persuasive essay writing, much of which challenged rather than cultivated my love of literature. However, the creative writing concentration of the English major at UCLA requires me to take at least two creative writing workshops in the same literary genre, and I can honestly say that those workshops are driving me through the major.

In a dark academia, The Secret History-esque fashion, creative writing workshops consist of a small group of students and a professor meeting each week to openly discuss the creative writing of masters, share their own work and give and receive feedback. In other words, creative writing workshops encompass what I imagined the English major would be when I signed up for it in the first place.

Perhaps the most wonderful aspect of the experience is that every student involved is extremely passionate about the subject, so you don’t have to feel guilty geeking out over Sylvia Plath or Ocean Vuong (or have to explain who those even are). The environment is inevitably brimming with eager creative energy, and you get to talk about writing with people who actually care about writing (as opposed to boring those who find it reprehensible).

Not to mention, if you are one who struggles to motivate yourself to get writing in the first place (but love it when you do), the workshops provide the perfect push of momentum. Many of us creatives struggle to work without a set deadline (by someone other than ourselves), and workshops provide the perfect level of structure to force you out of dry spells or writer’s block. Plus, professors often provide prompts and discussions far more stimulating than those you might find online.

That said, if you are obsessed with writing but aren’t an English major, you can often still participate in workshops. At least at UCLA, creative writing workshops are application-based, so you provide a writing sample and a brief statement of interest to get in. In other words, you can participate regardless of your major. I’ve met my fair share of STEM major writers in workshops. It’s all about the writing, not the background.

The point is, if you love writing, take a workshop. Or, better yet, if you loved writing, take a creative writing workshop. They will leave you fulfilled and refreshed in a way no other college course can.