Skip to content

In line with our mission to be collaborative partners that advance policies and build understanding around the intersectional issues impacting early childhood in North Carolina, we’re doing Q2 2023 seasonal roundup of early childhood related career opportunities. This blog will be updated as we’re aware of NC opportunities posted and available from April to June 2023. Please contact our Marketing Communications Leader, Lindsay Saunders, to request a job be added to the post. Note: in an effort to support more transparency and gender and racial equity, we only include opportunities that include a salary recruitment range. Opportunity with our Team at NC Early Childhood Foundation:NC Early Childhood Foundation does not have any current openings on the team. NCECF is a ten-year-old organization dedicated to building a foundation of equitable opportunity and success for every child by the end of third grade. NCECF embraces equity and inclusion in all of our work and on our team. All individuals are encouraged to apply regardless of age, color, disability, gender, gender identity, national origin, race, religion, sexual orientation, or veteran status.Career Openings with our Friends in Early Childhood NC Child advances strategies and policies to ensure all NC children grow up in a state that truly invests in their potential. NC Child is in search of their next Program Assistant. The Program Assistant is a detail-oriented team member who excels at managing calendars, meeting details, tracking complex data, and organizing events, with a personalized approach. They support all aspects of the Community Engagement Team, with the goal of helping more people across North Carolina step up and be the voice for children. The deadline to apply is April 6 at 5:00 PM. More information from NC Child’s Careers page. Prevent Child Abuse NC (PCANC) ensures that prevention is a priority in North Carolina and that all communities have the knowledge, skills, and resources to prevent child abuse and neglect at the local level. Advocating for prevention. Building community capacity. Raising awareness. Prevent Child Abuse NC is hiring for a Capacity Building Associate (Spanish Fluency). This position will contribute to the Capacity Building Team deliverables by working with key stakeholders to plan for and implement evidence-based and evidence-informed family service models, coordinate community-level planning processes, and provide training and consultation for network member agencies and prevention professionals throughout North Carolina. Fluency in Spanish is required. Learn more about this opportunity on PCANC’s website.The Down East Partnership for Children (DEPC) of Nash and Edgecombe Counties is a non-profit organization located in Rocky Mount, North Carolina. DEPC is “Committed to Launching Every Child as a Healthy, Lifelong Learner by the End of the Third Grade.” DEPC seeks a Controller to perform the accounting and reporting function for the Partnership, including performing technical accounting tasks, performing general ledger analysis and reconciliation, and preparing financial reports. The Controller ensures the accuracy of inputting and processing accounting data and reporting. In addition, this role measures and reports the cost of operation to the Operations Director and Executive Director and provides other financial and compliance services as directed. More information is posted about this opportunity and others with DEPC and their partners online.Book Harvest is a nonprofit organization that provides books to children and engages families and communities in promoting children’s literacy and a lifelong love of reading. Book Harvest is seeking a dynamic and detail-oriented individual to join the team as Book Hub Coordinator. The Book Hub Coordinator is an integral part of the Book Harvest Durham team responsible for providing an abundance of books wherever families are in Durham County. The Book Hub Coordinator stocks and maintains Book Hubs in community settings, scheduling installations, coordinating volunteers and contractors, conducting inspections, and handling site needs. They are a highly visible member of the team who brings confidence, organization skills, and attention to detail to their work and consistently represents the core values of Book Harvest to our volunteers, our partners, and our community. Priority deadline is April 9. Learn more about this and other ways to get involved with Book Harvest on their careers page.Child Care Services Association (CCSA) improves the quality of child care in North Carolina for all children by helping families find child care, offering informational events for families, professional development opportunities and programs for providers and comprehensive child care research for policymakers. They have many job listings posted, including Counselor Associate, Administrative Assistants to their programs, Research Assistants, and more. The Hunt Institute brings together people and resources to inspire and inform elected officials and policymakers about key issues in education, resulting in visionary leaders who are prepared to take strategic action for greater educational outcomes and student success. At an exciting inflection point in the organization’s history, The Hunt Institute’s team is rapidly expanding and frequently looking for passionate individuals to join our team. All positions will be based in The Institute’s Cary, North Carolina office. Open positions include: Policy Analysts, focused on Higher Education and K-12 education, and a Senior Program Manager. Learn more about the Hunt Institute and current job opportunities online. The NC Early Childhood Foundation is driven by a bold – and achievable – vision: Each North Carolina child has a strong foundation for life-long health, education, and well-being supported by a comprehensive, equitable birth-to-eight ecosystem. We build understanding, lead collaboration, and advance policies to ensure each North Carolina child is on track for lifelong success by the end of third grade.