Today, we will discuss five cricket players who have played for the maximum IPL franchise. Remember, it is important to note that players do not choose their franchise; the management determines players in auctions based on their past performance.

Irfan Khan holds fifth place in the list of players who have played for the maximum franchise. He began his IPL career in the 2008 season as part of the Kings XI Punjab squad, subsequently playing for Delhi Daredevils, Sunrisers Hyderabad, CSK, Rising Pune Supergiant, and the Gujarat Lions in a year-on-year journey in the IPL. Irfan’s IPL journey ended with playing 103 matches and hitting 1139 runs and 80 wickets.

Ishant Sharma is ranked fourth on the list of players who have played for the maximum franchise. And he began his IPL career with the Kolkata Knight Riders, then played for Deccan Chargers, Sunrisers Hyderabad, Rising Pune Supergiants, and Kings XI Punjab in subsequent IPL seasons. Since 2019, he has been a part of the Delhi Capitals.

Parthiv Patel is ranked sixth on the list and initiated his IPL career with CSK later; he joined Kochi Tuskers Kerala and played for Deccan Chargers, Sunrisers Hyderabad, MI, and Royal Challengers Bangalore. In the lifetime of the IPL, he has made a commendable score of 2,848 runs by playing 139 matches.

Thisara Perera, the Sri Lankan all-rounder ranked second on the list of players who have played for the most franchises, has been associated with six teams in the history of IPL. Perera made his IPL debut with CSK and, after that, played for Kochi Tuskers Kerala, MI, Sunrisers Hyderabad, Kings XI Punjab, and Rising Pune Supergiants. Perera has played 37 games in the IPL, scoring 422 runs and ending his IPL journey with 31 wickets.

Aaron Finch is the only IPL player to have played for the maximum number of IPL franchises. He played for Rajasthan Royals in 2010, followed by Delhi Daredevils for the next two years. Finch then moved on to Pune Warriors India, SRH, MI, and Kings XI Punjab. He played for Gujarat Lions and Royal Challengers Bangalore last. Since 2021 Finch has remained unsold.