Homeland Security Minister Ken Zikhale Ng’oma has said security agents will “dump” refugees who have defied the government order to relocate to Dzaleka Refugee Camp in Dowa at the nearest border post.

He said this yesterday following a meeting with members of the Small-scale Business Operators Association.

The development comes after it has been established that only 45 refugees have returned to Dzaleka following the relocation order.

Ng’oma said, having commented enough on the matter, what remains is for authorities to act on the issue.

He said government wants refugees back at Dzaleka Refugee Camp to be counted for a fresh update.

“Our records show that there are 3,000 refugees doing small-scale businesses in the country and, if they want to do business, let them get permanent business permits.

“We cannot host people who have refugee status and are, at the same time, doing business at the expense of Malawians,” Ng’oma said.

He observed that government will only confer refugee status on the 45 people that have returned to the camp.

The minister further said investigations show that there are “offensive weapons” at Dzaleka, which pose a danger to the country.

Ng’oma was, however, quick to say the government will not open Luwani camp to keep the refugees.

The minister also warned members of Small-scale Business Operators Association not to take the law in their hands, saying the government will not spare anyone involved in the malpractice.

Small-scale Business Operators Association Secretary General Tennyson Mulimbula said they are not against refugees doing business in Malawi.

“Rather, we want people that are in countries that have peace, notably Rwanda, Burundi, Bangladesh, Somalia, among others, not to be regarded as refugees,” Mulimbula said.

Meanwhile, Commissioner for Refugees General Maulana has disclosed that the United Nations and UNHCR will not take part in the relocation exercise and will not help with money.

The government set between April 1 and 15 this year as days when refugees would have to return to Dzaleka, their official home in the country.