James swapped one elite business school for another, having spent the prior 24 years as dean of the University of Southern California’s Marshall School of Business, which Fortune ranks as having one of the best part-time MBA programs in the U. S. Since taking the reins in July 2022, James has already overseen several major changes at Goizueta, namely lengthening the undergraduate business program to three years instead of two, adding new master’s degree programs, and putting a greater focus on artificial intelligence (A.I.).

Another change James is focused on is a broader appreciation for the full range of graduate program offerings at business schools. While it may be easy to point to full-time MBA programs as one of the most popular choices for graduate business education, very few students in the grand scheme of things pursue that specific path. In fact, only 3% of all students—both undergraduate and graduate—globally who are pursuing a business degree commit to the traditional two-year full-time MBA program, James tells Fortune. Rather, they opt for part-time MBA programs, executive MBA programs, or other specialized business master’s programs, he explains.

That’s partly why Goizueta has been laser-focused on developing new graduate programs like its master’s in analytical finance program. In its first year, the program received 600 applications for just 35 spots in the program. The school also intends to launch a master’s in business for veterans program in either summer or fall 2024, as long as the program is approved by the board of trustees and receives accreditation.

James: I’m a statistician by training. That’s my academic background. So in my 24 years at USC, I taught machine learning and data science courses for mostly the MBA students, but other groups of students as well. So it’s a passion of mine. There’s been an uptick in and interest in analytics and A. I. and all of those different topics.

At the moment, at the university level they’ve launched an A. I. initiative, they call it A.I.Humanity. Emory’s well-known for the humanities and liberal arts education that we provide our students. Faculty will be recruited in all the different schools around Emory. The Center for A.I. Learning is going to bring together not only these new faculty that they’re recruiting in, but the current faculty that we have.

Within Goizueta, just since I’ve started as dean in July, we’ve already hired five new faculty as part of this initiative. The provost is helping to pay for them, which is really nice, but it’s something that we would’ve been doing anyway, because within the business area, obviously analytics, A. I, has been transforming business in just about every industry that you could imagine over the last decade or so.

In 2006, I developed a course at Marshall when I was there on data science for business. And it was basically a course on some modern machine learning techniques supporting vector machines or neural networks or deep learning—things that are thrown around as buzzwords now. But back in 2006, that course was well ahead of the curve and very unusual to offer for MBA students. And people thought I was crazy. Just to make sure that I didn’t get any students there, they set the time for the class at 8:00 a.m.

Fast forward to 2018 and things had changed so dramatically over that sort-of 10-, 12-year period that now it had become—instead of a bonus for those students in some industries to even get your foot in the door—you needed to know about some of the stuff. And so we moved it from an elective course for the MBA students into required material for the first year.

My opinion as the dean is that every one of our students should be graduating—whether they’re BBAs or graduate students—with I call it “business plus.” So, the traditional set of business skills, but there has to be a plus on top of that, something extra that those students are bringing. Analytics is only one example of that.

I just arrived here so I don’t take any credit for it, but I’m very proud of the fact that they have an incredible placement rate on both their BBA students and their MBA students, and also the business analytics students, as well. It’s very close to a 100% placement rate. Obviously it’s a good school and we recruit good students—we do a good job educating them—but we have a great careers office to help the students out. Also, the region of the country that we are located in is booming.

There’s a lot of development going on both in Georgia, Atlanta itself, and Florida and the regions around here. Our second-year MBA students that are graduating next month are still doing very well getting placed. We haven’t seen a big downturn in the industries. A lot of them are going into consulting or finance industries, those are still doing very well. We are seeing a little bit more challenging environment for the first-year students in terms of getting summer internships.

Basically, we have an entirely in-person version, the more traditional version, but we also have an entirely online version where we have these global classrooms where there’s an entire wall of monitors and the faculty members in the room and each student has their own screen so much better than a Zoom-type environment. We’re building more of those global classrooms and we are seeing a big uptick in interest in those programs because of that online flexibility.