Fans have uncovered a catfish Tinder account from Germany using pictures of Denise Welch in the profile.

The Loose Women star, 64, has been happily married to husband Lincoln Townley for the last ten years - but was left in stitches as she saw herself on the popular dating app.

Claiming to be a 62-year-old woman named Gabi, the profile is written in German and claims that she has 'been alone for a while'.

After the profile was uncovered by a Brit travelling Germany, fans took to Twitter to share screenshots of the hilarious catfish profile.

And as it did the rounds online, the screenshot even caught Denise's eye as she dubbed it the 'Best tweet ever in my life!!!'

The profile biography reads: 'I've been alone for a while, I'm curious and I want to be surprised and have nice conversation'.

Featuring four different pictures, the account claims to be two years younger than the TV star's age and named Gabi.

The account who unveiled the account originally wrote: 'Obsessed with someone from work travelling across Europe and stumbling across a German catfishing as Denise Welch'.

While Denise herself then reshared the post to her Instagram Stories as she saw the funny side of things.

Fans couldn't contain their laughter at the bizarre catfish, with one even finding a German connection to the star.

Referencing her ex-husband Tim Healy, who she was with from 1988 to 2012, the fan recalled that he had been in British comedy-drama Auf Wiedersehen, Pet - which was set in Germany.

'Well her fella was in Auf Wiedersehen, Pet wasn’t he?' wrote the Twitter user.

It comes after Denise celebrated 11 years of sobriety earlier this week, sharing that giving up alcohol has 'changed her life' in a poignant Instagram post.

She admitted her 'disastrous' relationship with alcohol affected her relationship with her husband Lincoln and the lives of her sons Louis, 22, and Matty, 34, who she shares with her ex Tim.

The Coronation Street actress went on to share that although going sober 'wasn't easy', it completed changed her life and the lives of her loved ones.

In a poignant caption, she penned: '11 yrs sober today!!! Giving up my disastrous relationship with alcohol changed my life, my husband's life and my children's lives. Plus the lives of all who love me.