Mike Bigus, a senior at Platte County R-3, has signed a letter of intent to play football next season at Benedictine College in Atchison, Kan. A brief singing ceremony was held Friday in the library at the R-3 high school. On hand were Mike’s mother, Debbie, and father, Larry. Also present were Chip Sherman, Pirate head football coach and Craig Schuler, running backs coach and recruiting coordinator for Benedictine. Schuler said Benedictine plans to try Bigus at the wide receiver position. He played receiver, running back and defensive back at various times in his high school career. Bigus will join a couple of other former Pirates who participate in football at Benedictine, Chris Shanks and CJ Fulk.

Superior Supply Company presents scholarships each year in memory of Randy Miller at the Northland Career Center Business and Industry Appreciation breakfast. At the presentation last week were Del Winston, heating and air conditioning instructor; scholarship winners: Mark Nelson, Jack Searcy, Mark Smelcer, David Burns; and Larry Miller, president of Superior Supply.

The ballfield at Camden Point is ready for summer games now that a guard rail has been installed to protect the spectator bleachers. the guard rail was the result of a cooperative effort from Congresswoman Pat Danner, who as a state senator had contacted the Missouri Highway Department to see what they could do for Camden Point.

Ivan Foley, longtime owner/publisher of the Platte County Landmark, is a past winner of the national Gish Award for courage, tenacity and integrity in rural journalism, presented by the Institute for Rural Journalism and Community Issues at the University of Kentucky. He lives in Platte County not far from KCI Airport.

Tracy residents reported some minor damage due to tornado-like winds the evening of April 5. On the fairgrounds property, a large oak tree was uprooted and the Old Covered Bridge severely damaged. Some residents slept through it, others said it...

At Tuesday’s municipal election in Platte City, former mayor Frank Offutt beat incumbent Dave Brooks with 64% of the votes going to Offutt. “I am humbled by the response of the voters at the poll,” said Offutt. “I will be...

The Missouri Senate should be embarrassed. The Missouri House of Representatives passed a sports wagering bill 118-35. The Senate, on the other hand, fumbling with their personal sense of morality combined with the weight of their political donor's money, has...

EDITOR: Just wanted to tell you that I had almost decided not to renew my subscription to The Landmark but after reading your (March 22) edition I knew that no way could I not know what is going on in...

Health department will move to new spot soon

MoDOT is just speaking words at this point