Since its debut in late March, Netflix’s crime thriller “The Night Agent” has risen to the top spot on the streaming service’s most popular list and already secured a green light for a second season. The show follows low-level FBI agent Peter Sutherland, who mans the emergency phone line (?) in the basement of the White House (??) used by the bureau’s secretive Night Agent program (???).

One evening, Peter receives a call from former cybersecurity CEO Rose Larkin, who just witnessed the murder of her FBI-affiliated aunt and uncle. Peter is assigned to protect Rose, and the pair eventually team up to solve a DC Metro bombing and unravel a vast conspiracy at the highest levels of government. Violence, murder, plot twists, and romance—what do you mean there’s only one bed?!—ensue.

As enjoyable as the show is, it’s impossible to watch some of its entertaining-but-illogical scenarios and not wonder if Peter is actually, well, kind of terrible at his job. To get some expert perspective, we talked to retired FBI agent John Woodill, who worked for 21 years as both a special agent and a supervisor and helpfully agreed to watch some episodes of the show. Here’s what he had to say:

There are always heroic individuals working on behalf of the country. Whether they work for the FBI, or the Secret Service, or for any numerous organizations, it’s always a team effort. So the construct that there’s a single person, with very little, almost no experience, working somewhere like the White House, handling these enormous responsibilities, I think is more than a little unrealistic. Typically, people with experience would be handling critical matters.

As far as whether the person who is protecting someone would necessarily answer phones, I don’t know. Anyone can do anything, I suppose. But the point is that someone who is very new at his job suddenly being thrust into something of such great proportions doesn’t seem to make much sense. It’s unlikely that [Peter] would take all those matters into his own hands. And no matter how heroic he needs to be, or thinks he ought to be, that is not the way life usually evolves.

Right. His desire to help someone in need and to put himself in danger is something lots of people can relate to, especially if they are public servants. But there are things that are professionally done. And there are rules to be followed for a reason. Involving something very sensitive into one’s personal life is probably not a good idea for anyone.

Anytime the federal government has to protect someone of great importance, there are already mechanisms in place that require a great deal of effort and coordination and security. Doing something off-handed like that would never happen. Anyone taking matters into his own hands, involving his personal life and his personal resources, and places belonging to a friend or a friend of a friend—that’s never a good idea. That’s probably not the safest way to work.

Across the entire federal government landscape, [people] take their security clearances and any secrecy related to that very seriously. For drama’s sake, for a script, the big reveal is always important. But that is usually a dangerous thing to do. It puts programs and most importantly lives in jeopardy. It’s not a helpful tactic for anyone to undertake. From recent investigations and real world headlines, those who leak information are pursued and found—as we saw even in recent weeks, with a number of online documents from the military revealed inappropriately.

It’s important for the plot to have interesting characters who are savvy, who show their bravery when they’re under stress. Even though she has suffered through some serious events, she manages to dig deep and find that steeliness that’s necessary to help. But apart from the need to create her character in the script, people who need protection are there to be protected. The best thing to do is let the investigation remain with the professionals.

There are always processes, means in place for people to safely turn and report issues they think are of security concern. Even official whistleblower programs that offer protection. In a TV series, it’s more exciting to find out he has no one to support him, no one to trust, and he can only rely on his own wits. And for the sake of the drama, you wonder if this ties back into something deep in Peter’s life—that of his father. The way his father’s evolved, the way his father’s career ended, and what that means to him and his need to have to act independently. Not to give anything away, but we see how that evolves as the series ends.

I think it’s important to remember that people who meet the basic criteria, perform well, pass the tests, and want to serve their country are judged individually. Sure, there are always background investigations, suitability investigations, but people are judged on their individual merits. I think that’s what counts. Many people serve the country in secure positions. Invariably, there will be people related to others who may have broken the law. But that doesn’t necessarily negatively reflect on that individual who wants to take on that role and serve his or her country.

Eh, maybe just to see what it is. Everyone who works in public safety or in security, many people watch these same shows. They’re fun to watch. We all know what’s real and what isn’t, and if it’s good drama people will watch good drama. But the double edge of that experience is, [because] you know after a while what isn’t true and what is, and sometimes it becomes so far-fetched that it’s tough to watch. So, we’ll see.