Princess

Cruises announced that its largest ship ever, Sun Princess, will make her United States debut in October 2024 with a series of seven- and 14-day Caribbean itineraries.

Bookings for the inaugural Caribbean season go on sale on April 19.

Departing from Fort Lauderdale, the new vessel will offer entertainment in state-of-the-art venues, relaxation areas and the cruise line’s largest-ever casino. The 4,300-guest ship also boasts luxurious staterooms and suites across a broad spectrum of categories.

Highlights of Sun Princess’ first season in the Caribbean include:

* Five-day Caribbean Getaway kicks off the Caribbean season

with visits to Amber Cove and Grand Turk.

* Seven-day Eastern Caribbean with St. Thomas including a

late night in San Juan and a visit to our private island resort Princess Cays.

* Seven-day Eastern Caribbean with Bahamas visiting Amber

Cove, Grand Turk and a visit to our private island resort Princess Cays.

* Combine the Seven-day Eastern Caribbean and Western

Caribbean for the ultimate 14-day Caribbean East/West Adventurer.

“We are thrilled about the expansion of the Princess fleet and know that homeporting Sun Princess in Ft. Lauderdale offers a convenient option for guests to explore the most elevated experience ever from the Love Boat,” Princess president John Padgett said.

“The warmth, pristine beauty, and crystal-clear waters found throughout the Caribbean form an idyllic backdrop for our iconic new ship and create the perfect setting for Princess guests to enjoy the stunning views and playful adventure that are magnified on this beautiful, iconic new ship,” Padgett continued.

Sun Princess will homeport at Port Everglades for the winter after a season of Mediterranean and Europe cruises when she launches in February 2024. Bookings for the ship’s first cruises are now open.

Earlier this month, the cruise line revealed that two

of its ships would celebrate the United Kingdom’s coronation of King Charles III this May with live coverage and other celebratory events.

For the latest travel news, updates and deals, subscribe

to the daily TravelPulse

newsletter.