A very special type of solar eclipse is set to occur on Thursday when the Moon will appear to obscure the Sun for viewers in certain parts of the southern hemisphere, including Australia. The event will be a “hybrid” eclipse, so-called because it will appear to change appearance thanks to how the Moon’s shadow passes over the curved surface of the Earth. The best-situated observers will find themselves plunged into the “umbra” — the darkest central portion of the Moon’s shadow — and experience a “total eclipse” in which the Moon completely blocks out the Sun for a short period of time.

Viewers elsewhere along the eclipse’s path, meanwhile, will instead get to see a so-called annular eclipse, in which the Moon will only cover the centre of the Sun. The outer edges of the star will still be visible, forming an “annulus” — with the appearance of a “ring of fire” — around the Moon.

Physicist Professor Don Pollacco of the University of Warwick told Express.co.uk: “A solar eclipse occurs when the Moon, orbiting around Earth, moves directly in front of the Sun.

“If the Moon’s orbit was completely flat compared to the Earth’s orbit, then every month the Moon would pass in front of the Sun. However, it is slightly inclined to Earth’s orbit — so, instead, every 12–18 months the Moon eclipses the Sun and the rest of the time it passes either above or below the sun in its orbit.

“By a quirk of nature the apparent size of the Moon and the Sun are much the same. When an eclipse happens, if you stand where the alignment is best (every 12–18 months), you can see the Sun’s disk completely covered by the Moon – this is called a Total Solar Eclipse.

“These events are amazing as you can see the atmosphere of the Sun at that time and, of course, it gets dark as the sun is blotted out.”

Those outside of the “path of totality” — which is typically thousands of miles long but only around 100 miles wide — see only a partial eclipse, in which the Moon doesn’t completely cover the Sun.

The Earth–Moon distance can also play a role in determining how the eclipse appears.

Prof. Pollacco added: “The Moon’s orbit around the Earth isn’t quite circular but is flattened into an ellipse slightly. Consequently, sometimes the Moon can be slightly closer or further away from the Earth at the time of total eclipse.

“If the Moon is closer, it appears slightly bigger and the eclipse lasts a few minutes — the longest total eclipse is about seven minutes.

“If the Moon is slightly further away, it seems to be smaller than the Sun disk. At this time, you can see a ring in the sky called an annular eclipse. These eclipses are more like partial eclipses, as you don’t see the Sun’s atmosphere.”

Unfortunately for UK-based space enthusiasts, tomorrow’s eclipse will not be visible in the skies above Britain — or anywhere in the northern hemisphere, for that matter.

In fact, those of us in the UK will have a long time to wait before the next hybrid solar eclipse graces our skies on September 23, 2090!

Hybrid solar eclipses are rare events. The last occurred in November 2013, with totality visible over the northern Atlantic Ocean and parts of Central Africa.

The next is not scheduled until November 14, 2031 — and, with totality appearing over the middle of the Pacific, is unlikely to be so widely appreciated.

However, tomorrow’s unusual eclipse will grace the skies over parts of Australia and Asia.

The full eclipse is predicted to start at 10:37am local time (3.37am BST), reaching its maximum at 12.16am (5.16am BST) and ending at 1.56pm (6.56am BST.)

Lucky observers in North West Cape and Barrow Island in Australia, parts of East Timor, and West Papua, Indonesia will get to see a total eclipse, weather permitting.

A partial eclipse will also be visible to those living thousands of kilometres to either side of the path of totality, which will cover the whole of Australia and South East Asia.

UK viewers can watch the eclipse via a livestream on timeanddate.com.

DON’T MISS:

Mystery of stains on da Vinci’s most important collection solved[ANALYSIS]

Roman rampart reconstructed on site where Britain was first invaded[REPORT]

‘Horrendous‘ video of Yorkshire hen farm draws ‘fury’ at Government[INSIGHT]

According to the Royal Astronomical Society: “Although solar eclipses are spectacular events, it is very important to view them safely.

“Looking directly at the sun can cause serious damage to your eyes, even when a large fraction of the solar disk is blocked out.

“Viewing the Sun through binoculars or a telescope without a proper filter is even more dangerous.

“With no special equipment, the simplest way to watch an eclipse is to use a pinhole in a piece of card. An image of the Sun can then be projected onto another piece of card behind it. Under no circumstances should you look through the pinhole.”

The optimum distance between the two cards will vary based on location, the experts said, but will need to be at least 12 inches (30 cm) to be effective.

There are other safe ways to view the eclipse, the Royal Astronomical Society notes. One is the “mirror projection method” which, as the name implies, involves placing a small, flat mirror such that it projects the incident sunlight into a room where it can be viewed on a wall or similar vertical surface.

The experts added: “With care, you can also use a pair of binoculars — with the lens caps in place on one half — or a telescope to project an image of the sun. Mount them on a tripod, and fit one piece of card with a hole in it over the eyepiece, and place another between 50 cm and a metre behind it.

“Point the telescope or binoculars towards the Sun and you should see its bright image on the separate card. Bring this to a focus and enjoy viewing the eclipse in a safe, effective way.”

Amateur astronomers may also be able to fit their telescopes with full aperture solar filters which allow one to watch eclipses in greater detail — and even see features like sunspots on the star’s photosphere by means of the magnification.

So-called “eclipse glasses” — which should come with a certified safety mark — can also be ordered from specialist astronomy suppliers, although users should make sure that these are not in any way damaged before using them to stare at the Sun.

Those watching the eclipse via livestream will not need to take any safety precautions against the Sun’s glare.

It is possible to safely photograph a solar eclipse — as long as appropriate precautions are taken first and you do not stare directly into the Sun.

According to camera manufacturer Nikon: “You must take the necessary precautions to keep from harming your eyesight.

“In fact, you also need to use a ’solar filter‘ to keep from harming your camera’s imaging sensor as well as for correct exposure.

“These filters typically attenuate the sun’s visible and infrared energy by a factor of 100,000.”

At totality, however, solar filters must be removed to get a good shot. Nikon explains: “This is because the sun’s corona has a surface brightness a million times fainter than the sun’s visible disk or photosphere, so photographs of the corona must be made without a filter.

“Furthermore, it is completely safe to view the totally eclipsed sun directly with the naked eye.”

Almost any modern, digital camera can be used to photograph a solar eclipse. To get a good close-up of the show, a super-telephoto lens is recommended, along with a tripod on which to stabilise the camera.