According to MRFR analysis, the peat market is expected to register a CAGR of 4.57% from 2022 to 2030 and hold a value of over USD 5.34 billion by 2030.

The peat market refers to the buying and selling of peat, which is a natural material consisting of partially decomposed plant matter. Peat is commonly used as a fuel source, particularly in regions where other fuel sources are scarce, such as in some rural areas of developing countries. Peat is also used in horticulture, as a growing medium for plants, and in the production of certain products, such as whiskey. The peat market is primarily driven by demand from these industries, and the price of peat can fluctuate depending on factors such as supply and demand, transportation costs, and environmental regulations.

The COVID-19 pandemic has had a mixed impact on the peat market. The pandemic has increased demand for peat as a fuel source in some areas. With people spending more time at home due to lockdowns and other restrictions, there has been a greater demand for heating and cooking fuel.

The pandemic has also had negative impacts on the peat market. For one, the horticulture industry, which is a major user of peat, has been affected by supply chain disruptions and decreased demand due to lockdowns and reduced economic activity.

The largest region for the peat market is Europe. Peat has been used for centuries in Europe as a fuel source, particularly in countries such as Ireland, the United Kingdom, and the Nordic countries. The European peat market is dominated by a few large players, but there are also many small and medium-sized enterprises involved in peat production, distribution, and retail.

The demand for peat in Europe is primarily driven by the horticulture industry, where peat is used as a growing medium for plants.

The peat market has been segmented into type, material type and application.

Based on the type, the market has been segmented into Coco Peat and Sod Peat.

Based on the material type, the market has been segmented into Fibric, Hemic and Sapric.

Based on the application, the market has been segmented into Agriculture and Fuel and Energy.

Some of the key market players are:

Global Soil Conditioners Market Research Report: Information by Type (Natural and Synthetic), Solubility (Water-Soluble and Hydrogels), Crop Type (Cereals & Grains, Oilseeds & Pulses, Fruits & Vegetables and others) and Region (North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific and Rest of the World) – Forecast till 2030

Soil Stabilization Market Research Report: Information by Additive (Polymers, Mineral & Stabilizing Agents and others), by Method (Mechanical and Chemical), by Application (Industrial, Agricultural and others) and by Region (North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific and the Rest of the World) – Forecast till 2030

NOTE: Our Team of Researchers are Studying Covid19 and its Impact on Various Industry Verticals and wherever required we will be considering Covid19 Footprints for Better Analysis of Market and Industries. Cordially get in Touch for More Details.