Zoe Sugg donned matching caps with her baby daughter Ottilie and Alfie Deyes as they went for an Easter walk with brother Joe and Dianne Buswell.

The popular YouTube couple, who have been together since 2012, gave their fans an insight into their wholesome weekend.

Sharing a carousel of sweet photos to Instagram, Zoe, 33, was beaming as she hugged her daughter, 19 months, for a photo with Alfie, 29.

The media personality wore a khaki padded jacket with a grey hoodie and a pair of black leggings.

Ottilie looked adorable in a cute gingham coat with a hoodie and knitted trousers for the family photo.

Meanwhile Alfie opted for an all-black ensemble before joining Zoe's brother Joe and his girlfriend Dianne for a walk.

The professional dancer could be seen as she pushed Ottilie on a trike through the woods.

Alongside the post Zoe wrote: 'This weeks highlights feature some actual SUN which instantly made it a 10/10

'1. Family photo! It was cap day & we all got the memo. Otties little face here. 2. Black and white makes everything cuter

'3. Sometimes I dress Ottie & then it inspires my own outfit or visa versa, here is an example! I'd love her coat in adult size though, so lovely! 4. Crème egg in the bath, pure heaven.

'5. Walks with @diannebuswell & @joe_sugg. 6. My work wife for life @maddiechester

'7. Magnolia has blossomed. 8. Playing in the garden! 9. Posting her Easter cards. 10. Easter hamper providing all the entertainment this weekend!

'Hope you’ve had a lovely week & have an amazing Easter Sunday whatever you are doing.'

It comes after Dianne made a marriage hint as she gave a relationship update after she and her boyfriend Joe were hit by speculation that they had parted ways.

The Strictly Come Dancing pro, 33, and her YouTube star beau, 31, recently sparked split rumours when Dianne jetted off to see her family for Christmas without Joe.

Dianne, who met Joe on the 2018 series of Strictly when they were dance partners, then assured fans she is 'really happy' and even hinted that marriage could be on the cards, saying it would be 'great' if they tied the knot.

When asked about Joe popping the question, she told The Mirror: 'We haven't really spoken about it, so if it happens, great. If not, we're happy with how things are going.'