Yep, risky and brave, that’s me! But don’t worry — I’ll keep you in the know by live-streaming my entire adventure!

So, make yourself comfortable and come to travel through space with me! Ok, so, let me introduce my spaceship: the name of this super-fast beauty is “the Invincible,” and people won’t create anything of the kind for the next several decades.

How did I get a hold of it? Well, I have my ways. The thing is that space distances are seriously long. That’s why travelling there would take way more time than you’d like to spend on the road!

For example, Voyager 1, a space probe launched in 1977, was travelling out of the Solar System at a speed of 40,000 miles per hour.

If my spacecraft moved at the same speed, it would take me a whole 77,000 years to get to the nearest star! I mean, really? It would also take me more than a billion years to cross the Milky Way galaxy!

But luckily, the Invincible is much faster than that. Also, I almost forgot to introduce my companion- sorry, Liam!

You see, Liam is a robot with AI (you know, Artificial Intelligence). That’s why I have high hopes for him: I’ll have someone to talk to during the flight, and he can help me if things get really tough! And now, let the journey begin!

Here we go!…..3,2,1, blast off! Wow, the Earth is growing smaller and smaller by the second. It seems like no time has passed, but the spacecraft is already 200 miles above the surface of our planet.

Since it’s daytime, I can clearly see theGreat Lakes shining in the sun! And oh boy, I’ve just spotted something moving to the left of my ship! Could it be?… Right! It’s the International Space Station!

Did you know that the station is the most expensive single object in the world? Huh, no wonder, with a price tag of $100 billion! This money would buy you 250 Boeing 747s or two Louvre with all the paintings and artwork inside!

From my spacecraft, the ISS looks pretty big, but I shouldn’t be surprised, since the length of the station is over 350 feet, which is more than the length of a football field. But I don’t have time to linger, a black hole is calling for me.

Now, I’m about 1,300 miles over the surface of the planet, and I start to spot satellites here and there. I’ve read that among satellites, there are low and high flyers.

And while the lowest flying ones move approximately1,250 miles away from Earth (which is the length of 4 and a half Grand Canyons), the highest reach 22,000 miles into space (which almost equals the Earth’s circumference, measuring about 25,000 miles).

By the way, few people know that satellites travel at a blinding speed, from 7,000 to 18,000 miles per hour! Also, the higher a satellite is, the slower it moves, relatively speaking.

For example, the weather-tracking GOES system of satellites orbits Earth once a day at a distance of 22,000 miles above your head and reaches a maximum speed of 7,000 miles per hour.

Meanwhile, the ISS, in low earth orbit, zooms at over 17,000 miles per hour. Well, the satellites are being left behind, and my spacecraft is already taking Liam and me up toward the Moon, about 240,000 miles away from Earth.

That’s the same distance you would go if you went around our planet ten times in a row! From here, Earth looks like a small, bright blue ball hanging in the middle of nowhere.

And you know what else? From my spacecraft, I can clearly see that the Moon isn’t a perfect sphere! It’s shaped more like… hmm… yeah, like an egg! Wow! Anyway, bye-bye, Moon, we’re heading somewhere even further!

I see Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, and Neptune passing by in all their glory. And look, there’s Pluto, who used to be a planet but was later demoted.

From here, Earth looks like a small star that getting fainter and fainter as I’m moving further away. But wait, what’s that? Some object is approaching me at a high speed, could it be..(readmore)