Manchester City have submitted a planning application to increase the capacity of the Etihad Stadium to more than 60,000.

The club have put forward an official proposal with Manchester City Council to expand the North Stand to include a larger upper tier that will add to the current 53,500 capacity.

The plans also include a new club shop, museum and hotel within the expanded stand.

They also hope to build a covered “City Square fan zone” with capacity for 3,000 supporters.

A club statement read: “Manchester City is today announcing that it has submitted a planning application to Manchester City Council for the development of a best-in-class fan experience and year-round entertainment and leisure destination at the Etihad Stadium.

“This follows the conclusion of the Club’s consultation held between Tuesday 28th February and 26th March, where fans and the local community were invited to share their feedback on concepts and designs.

“Having reviewed all of the feedback submitted via the consultation questionnaire, the club is delighted to confirm that fans were in favour of the concepts and proposals presented.

“Proposals include several connected all-weather facilities, fully integrated into the stadium, centred around an expanded North Stand with one larger, single upper tier above the existing lower tier, increasing capacity to over 60,000. Above the upper tier, a sky bar with views overlooking the pitch has been introduced, together with a stadium roof walk experience.

“In line with the club’s initial designs, a covered City Square fan zone, with capacity for 3,000 people and a wide variety of food and drink outlets, a new club shop, museum and a 400-bed hotel are also proposed.”

Managing director of operations Danny Wilson said: “Over several months we have been developing concepts and designs for a best-in-class fan experience and year-round entertainment and leisure destination at the Etihad Stadium and are delighted to have now submitted a planning application to Manchester City Council.

“I’d like to take this opportunity to thank our fans and the local community for their participation in our recent consultation, not only for completing the questionnaire but sharing their detailed comments and feedback with us, all of which has been carefully reviewed and considered.

“As with all club developments, ensuring our local community benefit is a key priority and we believe these proposals will deliver long-term economic and social opportunities, building on the regeneration work delivered in East Manchester by City Football Group since 2008.”

The Etihad was last week included on a list of 10 UK stadia should the joint bid alongside Ireland for Euro 2028 be successful.

Manchester City are in their ruthless run-in frame of mind