A Washington State bill threatens to completely remove parental rights when it comes to their children’s medical care. The bill that “would strip parents’ rights to intervene on their kids medical care in certain circumstances passed the House Wednesday, clearing its pathway to being signed by Gov. Jay Inslee” reports Fox News.

“An act relating to supporting youth,” or Senate Bill 5599, allows host homes for runaway youth “to house youth without parental permission.” Furthermore, the host homes do not need to notify parents about where their kids are or if they are getting medical interventions “if there is a compelling reason not to, which includes a youth seeking protected health services.”

Instead of contacting parents, the shelters can contact the Washington Department of Children, Youth and Families (DCYF) instead; a move that could result in child protective services and the state taking away children from their parents.

The “protected health care services” included “gender-affirming care,” which for minors arbitrarily included anything prescribed by a doctor to treat dysphoria, the bill said.

“Gender affirming treatment can be prescribed to two-spirit, transgender, nonbinary, and other gender diverse individuals,” the bill stated.

Another “compelling reason” not to notify parents about kids staying in a host home was “circumstances that indicate notifying the parent or legal guardian will subject the minor to abuse or neglect.”

After the bill passed the house, Democratic State Representative Tana Senn, who supported the bill, said, “I am saying tonight to them that I see you, that I affirm you, that I hear you, that I love you,” according to Townhall.

Fox News notes that the bill has been criticized by opponents for being “child abuse.” State Senate Republican Leader John Braun blasted the bill for attacking parents’ rights.

“The only thing [the bill] would do is cause harm by driving a wedge between vulnerable kids and their parents, at a time when a teen lacks the perception and judgment to make critical life-altering decisions,” Braun said. “A parent may not even know why the child ran away and could involve law enforcement or other groups in a desperate search… all the while going through an unnecessary emotional nightmare, imagining the worst about what might have happened.”