Clancy Harrison, Food Dignity; Amanda Banta, Rowlands Pennsylvania Produce in Falls; and Bill Ellsworth, Project Ecuador, who donated $1,000 to the Food Dignity program on Tuesday.

Clancy Harrison, Food Dignity; Amanda Banta, Rowlands Pennsylvania Produce in Falls; and Bill Ellsworth, Project Ecuador, who donated $1,000 to the Food Dignity program on Tuesday.

WILKES-BARRE — After donating $10,000-plus that was raised in Northeastern Pennsylvania to the most needy in Ecuador, Billy Ellsworth decided it’s time to give back to NEPA.

Ellsworth, founder of Project Ecuador, donated $1,000 on Tuesday to the Food Dignity Project of Clancy Harrison. The donation was presented at New Roots, 121 Water St., Wilkes-Barre. Lyndsay Guirin, director of operations at New Roots, accepted the produce for their clients.

“These are funds raised through speaking engagements, benefit concerts, donations etc.,” Ellsworth said. “The donation is going to Food Dignity located in Forty Fort. The organization is under the direction of Ms. Clancy Harrison, whom I have dealt with at a previous Food Pantry and I have the utmost respect for. She is the founder and Executive Director of this outstanding organization.”

Ellsworth said Food Dignity provides food to the most needy in Wyoming Valley “in a dignified, honorable way, never degrading or belittling any client.”

Ellsworth said he raises money through various events, where his band, NonStop Music, is often featured.

Harrison was on hand to accept the check, along with Amanda Banta of Rowlands Pennsylvania Produce in Falls. Banta delivered Bibb lettuce and mixed greens to New Roots. Banta said the produce was purchased through the Food Dignity program at wholesale rates.

Harrison says ‘shame should never be the reason a family goes hungry.”

“Once we understand that anyone can lose their job, get sick, or face a disaster, we see that hunger can happen anywhere,” Harrison says on the Food Dignity website. “The Food Dignity Movement challenges the judgments that hinder access to healthy food. And it builds more vibrant communities where people are met with compassion and respect in their time of need, no matter who they are or why they’re hungry.”

Harrison said the Food Dignity program, improves the outcomes of nonprofits by making local produce and food available to people who need it most. She said the produce is provided onsite of our community partners, such as New Roots.

Here is some information about FD and our Farm to Friend Project (F2F):

Harrison said the Food Dignity program helps farmers and it serves nourishing food to people living with food insecurity by connecting local farmers directly to nonprofits.

She said the program puts donated money back into the hands of regional Pennsylvania farmers and asks them to feed those in need across Luzerne County.

Harrison said Food Dignity pays PA farmers a fair price to provide their agricultural foods to a network of local nonprofits serving people in need.

Harrison said programs like Food Dignity are:

“We believe that finding new solutions to hunger in NEPA will have a direct impact on the social, mental, and physical health of our communities,” Harrison said.