Your next Egyptian adventure just became a whole lot more interesting! The much-anticipated Grand Egyptian Museum (GEM) recently launched limited guided tours, and here’s how you can book yours.

Egypt is a much-loved destination for history buffs, given its millennia-old structures and culture. GEM is another reason people are eyeing a visit to the country – the place claims to be the world’s largest archaeological museum dedicated to a single civilisation and houses the history of Egypt and its people.

However, the official opening date of the place is still unconfirmed. This is why the authorities’ decision to launch limited guided tours is creating a buzz amongst travellers.

According to the official website, limited tours are being offered to test site readiness as well as visitor experience ahead of the official opening. The tour will take visitors to the Grand Hall, Glass Court, Conference Centre, Commercial Area and Exterior Gardens. However, all other spaces (including galleries and collections) inside the Grand Egyptian Museum will remain inaccessible until its official opening.

12 Offbeat Museums In Delhi That You May Not Know Existed

Tickets to the current guided tours are priced at EGP 1,000 (INR 2,654) and EGP 500 (INR 1,327) for foreigners, adults (above 21 years old) and youth (6-21 years old), respectively. For locals, the ticket fares are EGP 150 (INR 398) and EGP 75 (INR 199) for an adult and a youth, respectively. The museum is open from 9:00 am to 2:00 am, according to the website, and during this time, visitors can come and see the limited displays inside. This includes the statue of Ramses II inside the Grand Hall, as well as several other artefacts.

Reports state that the GEM is spread over 120 acres, making it bigger than Vatican City, the smallest country in the world. The museum is located in Giza and is just two kilometres from the Great Pyramids of Giza. Construction of the museum complex began back in 2005, reports add.

Related: This New Luxury Nile River Cruise Is A Gateway To Egypt’s Ancient Wonders