A big running back from a small town in the suburbs outside of Sacramento stomped by gold jersey after gold jersey Saturday in Arizona State fans’ first look at the team’s overhauled talent. Some may not have known who he was or where he came from ahead of the afternoon’s first snap, but it was hard to miss the 5-foot-10, 220-pound running back who touched the football on nearly half his team's plays and appeared to break almost as many tackles in the process.

Soon enough, his name, image and likeness had to be well known: “Cameron Skattebo, for a gain…” was a line announced over the public-address system, seemingly at will.

“It’s the chip on his shoulder,” ASU running backs coach Shaun Aguano said. “He played at [Sacramento] State, wants to make a name for himself in the Pac-12 and we’re excited to have him.”

Sure, the heavy load Skattebo lifted with his broad shoulder pads was the result of several scholarship running backs — California senior running back transfer DeCarlos Brooks, junior George Hart III and sophomore Tevin White — being held from participation as an apparent precautionary measure, but he still successfully managed as much in pursuit of the workhorse role he said that he set out to prepare for this spring.

“I take punishment every time I touch the football, so I give it to myself and they give it to me and it’s what I do, it’s how I run the football,” Skattebo said. “I just have to embrace it and accept it.”

As last season’s Big Sky Player of the Year, Skattebo collected 196 carries for 1,373 yards and seven touchdowns as part of a stat line that also included 31 catches for 371 yards and three touchdowns — all for a 12-1 Sacramento State squad that suffered its only loss to No. 7 Incarnate Word in the FCS quarterfinals.

But he wanted to work beyond the boundaries of his hometown, and he said a text from Aguano one day removed from his transfer portal entry promised that opportunity. It didn’t take long for Skattebo’s recruitment to reach its peak, as Aguano then visited him and his family before they returned the favor on a Dec. 17 official visit to Tempe — where he has turned heads both figuratively and physically, with a stiff arm that he extended on a number of occasions Saturday.

“You can see he’s a very violent runner, great balance,” Aguano said. “We just want to make sure we keep him healthy, and he’s a (receiving) weapon out of the backfield as well.”

Aguano held off on hailing Skattebo as a starter amid a battle that he said will continue throughout camp in August, but the way Dillingham has described the strong-minded sophomore indicates that he’ll only improve with time.

"Skat brings it every day," Dillingham said Thursday. "That dude is a bad-butt dude. Fill in what you think I was trying to say, but that dude is just every single day go-get-it competitive. If you light the fire under Skat to compete, he'll fight until the death."

From Sacramento State to ASU and Lio Rindo to Tempe, he is now running with a raging passion to put his name on an NFL roster: an opportunity few others saw for him, outside of himself.

“Not many people believe you can make it out of there and I’m trying my best to do it,” Skattebo said.

The implementation of Brian Ward’s highly-touted defensive scheme that Dillingham praised upon hiring the coordinator was one of the most intriguing developments of the entire spring for ASU.

The aggressive nature of Ward’s system was on full display throughout each of the 15 practice sessions held over the last month, featuring exotic blitz packages, disguised coverages and a variety of different looks in the secondary and upfront.

But outside of its style, Ward’s defense showed plenty of playmaking ability, which was prevalent during the spring game.

The Maroon and Gold defense combined for five sacks and four interceptions. Both teams generated consistent pressure on opposing quarterbacks as well, winning battles at the point of attack and creating opportunities for others. The performance of the unit throughout the spring pleased Ward, who expressed his excitement to work with the unit more in the summer and fall.

“I even feel a little more encouraged than when I came in,” Ward said. “You always look at the previous season’s film and looking at the evaluation of our own personnel before you even get a chance to work with them. I think some guys are even a little bit better than what we evaluated. Part of that is bringing the energy and the fun back in the game and these guys have really responded to our style of coaching.”

Sophomore defensive end BJ Green, who was dominant in his new position throughout the spring, recorded a pair of sacks for Maroon, the last of which forced a turnover on downs late in the fourth quarter to secure a win for his team. Junior defensive end Dylan Hall notched a sack on freshman quarterback Jaden Rashada that also forced a turnover on downs earlier in the game.

The secondary got involved, too. Junior defensive back Jordan Clark sacked junior quarterback Trenton Bourguet for Gold on a critical third-and-short situation early in the fourth quarter, which followed his third-quarter interception on a deep-out pattern that BYU sophomore transfer quarterback Jacob Conover threw right into his hands.

Several balls were deflected or nearly picked by senior cornerback Ro Torrence — who picked off Rashada in the second quarter — and senior safety Chris Edmonds as well, while USC sophomore transfer Xavion Alford and redshirt junior walk-on defensive back Alphonso Taylor had interceptions.

Clark said the defensive backfield possesses plenty of potential in Ward’s scheme.

“We got a lot of talent in the room,” Clark said. “I think (Austin Peay junior transfer) Shamari (Simmons) showed what he is capable of this entire spring. Ro has been special, [Alford] has been special. Chris is the same. I think we got a shot to be a really good group.”

Ward seemed pleased by the effort on Saturday, citing Green and Clark’s performances in particular. He said that establishing the scheme during the spring provides a base for the group to build off of in the fall in preparation for the season.

“Our goal was to lay the foundation for things like effort and the fundamentals that we want to be able to master,” Ward said. “We were able to get the majority of our defense in this spring, so at least we have something to start from. We’ve been able to lay down that foundation.

“It gives us some momentum going into fall camp and into the summer, which will lead to fall camp. Just excited about this group. They got a lot of great energy and they love the game, and they love each other, that’s the most important thing.”

Months ago, ASU coach Kenny Dillingham laid out an extremely ambitious goal of having more than 40,000 fans attend ASU's Spring Game. It would have been at least three times more than any prior such crowd in recent decades.

In order to try to facilitate a better environment at Sun Devil Stadium, Dillingham supported moving the game to within two hours of the conclusion of Pat's Run. But it did not lead to an impressive turnout, as an estimated 5,000 fans watched the game, most of whom lingered in the shade in the upper rows of the lower bowl on the eastern side of the stadium.

"I was kind of expecting more, to be honest," Dillingham said. "I'm kind of disappointed. We say we want to be a football town. It was a good crowd but not what a football town should be."