With their made from scratch authentic food of the Middle East, Layla’s Falafel has been a staple in Fairfield County for more than 23 years.

The Layla’s Falafel story began by accident in the family’s chain sandwich shop in downtown Bridgeport, CT. back in 2000.  Layla’s was never the plan, but it became their family’s American Dream.

It all started when a customer asked owner Layla Sakakini if she would make him tabbouleh after learning that she had recently immigrated to the US from Lebanon. She gladly agreed and this became a regular occurrence. It wasn’t long before she introduced falafel to the menu and their uncle started frying them in a small, electric fryer.

Today, the restaurant has grown to include three stores:  Fairfield, Westport, and Stamford. In addition to the stores, Layla’s also offers a robust catering service with options for corporate catering to weddings and everything in between!

The menu at Layla’s is full of pitas, wraps, platters, and favorites like Falafel, Chicken Shawarma, Shawafel, Kabobs, Soups, and plenty of sides! Of course, let’s not forget Layla’s French Fries (a favorite of ours!)

Just recently, the team unveiled Layla’s “Build Your Own Bowl” options as well. Here you can choose a base with rice (rice & lentils or white rice with vermicelli noodles) or a salad, protein toppings, sauce and enjoy! Just like the other menu options, the bowls can be made vegetarian, vegan and gluten-free.

I am excited to share that I had the opportunity to team up with Layla’s Falafel to create a signature HEY STAMFORD! RICE BOWL which is now available at all locations for $18.

* And of course, French Fries!

The Hey Stamford! Rice Bowl is also available on all third party platforms ubereats and grubhub + the Layla’s Falafel website.

Stop by and order the Hey Stamford! Rice Bowl today. And when you do, share on Instagram and tag us @HeyStamford and @LaylasFalafel

Layla’s Falafel is located at 936 High Ridge Road in Stamford. To check out their menu, learn more about catering, or see additional locations, please visit LaylasFalafel.com or call (203) 461-8004.