Unfortunately, car accidents happen here in New York City every single day. Though most of these accidents don’t result in serious injuries, a percentage of them do. If you are someone who has been wrongfully injured in a car accident, you may be entitled to compensation, however, if you were hurt in a car accident but played some role in causing the accident, you may wonder if you still qualify for compensation. New York recognized what’s known as comparative negligence when it comes to auto accidents and other personal injury cases. Please continue reading and reach out to a dedicated New York City personal injury lawyer from The Law Office of Richard M. Kenny today to learn more about comparative negligence and how it may impact your recovery. Here are some of the questions you may have:

New York is a comparative negligence state. Simply put, this means that if you were injured in an accident but contributed to the accident in some way, you can still recover compensation, albeit a reduced amount based on the percentage of fault attributed to you. So, for example, if you were hurt in a car accident because one driver failed to stop at a stop sign, but you were also speeding at the time of your accident, if it is determined you were 20% at fault, you would receive 80% of the compensation you would have been entitled to, had the other driver been 100% at fault.

Because New York observes comparative negligence, it’s important that you have a seasoned personal injury lawyer in your corner who can work to gather and present evidence to effectively prove your personal injury claim. Our firm can work to obtain surveillance footage of your accident, witness contact information, medical documentation, and more, in an effort to recover the maximum compensation. If you have any further questions about auto accidents in New York City or you’ve been injured in one due to no fault of your own, simply pick up the phone and give us a call today. We are here to fight for you, every step of the way.

Our entire legal team is dedicated to providing the advice you need and the personalized attention you deserve. If you have been injured due to another party’s negligence, call 866-886-0892 or fill out our contact form to schedule a free consultation with a New York City personal injury lawyer. You may be entitled to financial compensation, which can help you on your road to recovery.