HARRISBURG – Robbie Lindhorst, Diesel Technology Instructor at Southeastern Illinois College, has been chosen by a vote of his peers as the Loren P. and Velma Dallas Outstanding Teacher of the Year for 2022-2023.

The award’s criteria include at least three years of full-time employment, participation above and beyond classroom assignments, competence in one’s field or discipline, continuing one’s education and participating in professional development activities, rapport with students, personal commitment to higher education and the transfer of knowledge to students, upholding and encouraging ethical behavior of self and students, and giving freely to prepare students for their chosen careers.

Lindhorst, who resides in Johnston City, has been a full-time faculty member at SIC for 23 years teaching diesel technology courses. He has an associate degree in Diesel Maintenance Technology from Ranken Technical Institute in St. Louis, Missouri, and holds Master Technician status with Automotive Service Excellence (ASE). He has been an evaluation team leader for ASE Education Foundation for 15 years, and has been the team leader in obtaining and maintaining national certification for the SIC diesel tech program.

His peers will say that Lindhorst has always put the student first in his teaching, works tirelessly to help students gain employment, and guides them in their careers. One way he puts his students first is by tailoring his teaching style to fit their needs.

“Most of our students are kinesthetic, visual, and logical learners. With all learning styles in mind, I put together lesson plans to include aural, social, solitary, and verbal,” said Lindhorst.

Other instructors also know they can count on Lindhorst.

“He (Lindhorst) is always willing to lend a helping hand to anyone in need, and I know he has my back as a team member,” said SIC Welding Instructor Mark Thomas. “His students give him respect and they know that he is a good friend to them, as well.”

Lindhorst also values the teacher/student relationship, making sure the students know they can contact him with any school-related needs at any time.

“Mr. Lindhorst is an excellent teacher. Not only is he knowledgeable is his field, but he is also great at explaining concepts that are difficult to understand in an easy-to-grasp fashion,” said diesel technology student Eli Mackey of Morganfield, Kentucky. “He places his students first, builds good relationships, and goes out of his way to help other people.”

SIC Board of Trustees member Jimmy Ellis said, “Robbie Lindhorst is a great friend with a great heart, he is a very humble and respected instructor who is motivated, organized, and driven. He teaches with enthusiasm, has a great attitude, and is very passionate about sharing all his knowledge to his students.”

In 2010, Lindhorst received the National Institute for Staff and Organizational Development (NISOD) Award, a membership organization committed to promoting and celebrating excellence in teaching, learning, and leadership at community and technical colleges.

He is also an active co-Division Chair for the Applied Technology division and currently serves on the assessment, master facilities, alumni, and student support committees. Additionally, he serves on the HLC Criterion team at SIC and is active with the Diesel Technology Club. Lindhorst regularly recruits students and participates in college career days at area high schools. He also helps coordinate and participates in the Section 25 Ag Mechanics competition held annually at Southeastern. Additionally, he is an active member at his church where he serves as Deacon.

Dr. Karen Weiss, Vice President of Academic and Student Services, said, “Robbie is an excellent instructor inside and outside the classroom. He has served as a mentor when onboarding new faculty members. Robbie’s strength is in his service to the college, to the students, to his colleagues, to his church, and to his family and friends. He is most deserving of this honor.”

Lindhorst’s 2023 Loren P. and Velma Dallas Outstanding Teacher Award makes him eligible for the 2023 ICCTA Outstanding Faculty Member Award, as well.

Lorna Dallas-Brown, who lives in New York and England, and the late Ellen Wiggins, daughters of the late Loren P. and Velma Dallas of Carrier Mills, established the Loren and Velma Dallas Outstanding Teacher Award in honor of their parents in 1996. Their father, a founding member of the Southeastern Illinois College Board, was passionate about education. Loren and Velma Dallas gave tirelessly to young people and wanted to provide opportunities for higher education in Southern Illinois. Each year the Dallas endowment through the SIC Foundation awards $500 to the Outstanding Teacher of the Year.