Launched alongside the OnePlus 11 the buds pro is the newest Premium TWS from OnePlus, this time released with a Dynaudio partnership which I think is a courtesy of Oppo as they shared their Hasselblad partnership with Oppo's premium devices.

The significant price hike of the OnePlus Buds Pro 2 compared to its predecessors OnePlus Buds Pro raised some eyebrows. Hence the question arises, is it not only an upgrade from the OnepLus Buds Pro but better enough to justify its price of ₹11,999? Let's find out, shall we?

Easy to use app packed with features

The OnePlus Buds Pro 2 literally follows the footsteps of its predecessor in terms of design with a similar design and pattern to the OnePlus Buds Pro. It is a sleek pocket friendly design, and doesn't bulge out from the pocket at all.Although the design being sleek, feels a little bulky compared to the Galaxy Buds Pro 2. OnePlus Buds Pro 2 comes in 2 colors, the OG Obsidian Black and Arbor Green. The one we have here is the Arbor Green which OnePlus Launched to match with its new OnePlus 11.

The earbuds come with a dual tone finish, a glossy touch on the stem and a matte feel on buds whereas the case comes with a matte finish but the overall look and feel of the buds is somewhat similar to the Airpods Pro.

Now this may be subjective but the fit of Buds Pro 2 was decent in my ears, it remained intact even when I was running, working out and especially skipping. Although the fit was not great enough to prevent audio leakage but, while the leakage was evident it was not enough to recognize what exactly you are listening to, so you can carry on with your guilty pleasure playlist without worry.

Finally the case comes with an IPX4 rating and the buds with IP54. So you might want to avoid using them in the shower.

As Hans Zinner is the brand Ambassador for the One Plus Buds pro 2, what better soundtrack to test audio than Mountains from Interstellar. Also, to spice things up a bit I pitted it against the Samsung Galaxy Buds2 Pro which is powered by AKG.

I can confidently say that the OnePlus Buds Pro 2 and the Samsung Galaxy Buds Pro 2 stand shoulder to shoulder in terms of overall sound quality I was easily able to distinguish all the instruments playing in the track easily in both the buds, BUT the thumping sound of the organ introduced in the background at 2:02 hits you like a truck and makes the OnePlus Buds Pro 2 stand above Samsung Galaxy Buds2 Pro at least in terms of Bass.

Even statistically, the OnePlus Buds Pro 2 has a slightly bigger driver (11mm) and tweeter (6mm) compared to Samsung Galaxy Buds2 Pro's 10mm driver and 5mm tweeter. Interestingly, the Galaxy Buds2 Pro comes at ₹15,390 whereas the OnePlus Buds Pro 2 will cost you ₹11,999. But, to be fair, the Galaxy Buds Pro 2 have less latency compared to the OnePlus Buds Pro 2, which is funny because the OnePlus Buds Pro 2 ad literally features Hans Zimmer mixing sounds using the Buds which is a nightmare for any sound mixer. Literally any bluetooth Audio device is a big "no no" in the audio industry. Anyways, The Galaxy Buds 2 pro are more compact and ironically pocket friendly in terms of the fit.

Now, the feature you wanted to read about the most, Noise Cancellation. The Buds Pro 2 provides you with a 48db perfectly good Active noise cancellation. I'll say it was efficient enough to save me from all the hassle in the background. When the music was on I almost skipped my station as even the loud announcement was completely inaudible.

Now, moving on to Mic. The most important question here is how well it can operate in a noisy and turbulent area. Hence to test this out I lent it to my friend and made a phone call while he was crossing a busy New Delhi road and I was actually able to figure out each and every word he was saying without asking to repeat for a single time. The voice was pretty clear on that front. The Buds Pro 2 were actively detecting the noise in the background and canceling to cater to his audio during the call and the loudness of the voice was intact too.

If you are using a OnePlus or an Oppo device you literally might have found the match in the OnePlus Buds Pro 2 as it connects super easily with any oneplus and oppo devices and comes with all the settings within the bluetooth menu. But if you are using any other Android device or if you are an IOS user like me, then you have to welcome the HeyMelody app in your device.

About the Hey Melody App, it's pretty great actually, easy to come with interesting, no gimmicky features. Right off the bat it gives you an option for Dual Connectivity so you don't need to jump between 2 devices. It allows you to switch efficiently between ANC and transparency mode and once you tap into ANC you can toggle between the 3 levels of it based on your surroundings or, well, you can allow the app to automatically do that for you by tapping on to Smart ANC.

The Buds Pro 2 also caters to you with an ear bud fit test and also comes with Golden Audio, which customizes the sound to your ear canal structure and hearing characteristics to give you an overall better hearing experience. But apart from that, you can adjust the EQ based on your requirements and the app not only allows you to do so by providing presets but you can even customize it manually based on your suitability.

Another cool feature of the app is that it comes with Zen Mode, for those stressed souls who are deep into the corporate rabbit hole or or basically anyone who needs relaxing you can long press your stem for 4-5 seconds to tap into the zeb mode which plays soothing white noise to get you into the zone.

However a drawback here is that the OnePlus Buds Pro 2 only supports LHDC so for those who prefer LHDC this might come as a bummer.

The Buds Pro 2 comes with a 525mAh battery in the case and can last up to 39 hours with full charge. However, with ANC on it might come down to around 30 hours, which is still great as it give you roughly 7 hours of playback time per use.

There are also some other interesting features based around the stem, a quick squeeze on step to play and pause, double squeeze to move on to the next track and triple squeeze to play the previous one. However, it lacks the stem volume control.

They say never judge a book by it's cover and the OnePlus buds Pro 2 might look similar to it's predecessor, the OnePlus Buds Pro BUT is an upgrade in all other front making it stand well over it and even edge out other major TWS flagships in significant category with a well justified price.

The powerful bass, strong battery life, affecting noise cancellation, these buds will satisfy you on almost all fronts. Team that up with an easy to use Feature packed HeyMelody App and a beautiful premium look, specifically the Arbor Green color and you might be looking at the most worth it TWS in this price range.