General Hospital spoilers suggest Jordan Ashford (Tanisha Harper) is struggling with her colleagues and friends as of late. When the news broke that Victor Cassadine (Charles Shaughnessy) had taken Spencer Cassadine (Nicholas Chavez) and Liesl Obrecht (Kathleen Gati) captive aboard The Haunted Star, Jordan’s friends thought it was high time they fill her in on what they’ve been up to.

If the PCPD was going to navigate this case correctly, they needed to have all of the relevant information. Jordan is grateful that they did the right thing and shared what they knew, but that doesn’t mean it hurts any less that they kept her out of the loop.

When Laura Collins (Genie Francis) stepped up and told Jordan the truth, it meant a lot to the Police Commissioner, but it was also very painful for Jordan to realize she was the last to know. Why did Laura think it was safe to carry out this plan with Anna Devane (Finola Hughes), Valentin Cassadine (James Patrick Stuart), and Robert Scorpio (Tristan Rogers) — other officers of the law — and not her?

As Laura explained it, she didn’t want to compromise Jordan by giving her details about their plan or letting her know they might have been breaking the law at times. However, Jordan can’t help but feel like it’s all inside baseball and she wasn’t invited to the game.

Maybe it’s juvenile, but Jordan wants to feel included by her friends, her peers, her colleagues. She wants to know they trust her enough to believe she has their back even when they’re bending the rules, but can anyone really trust Jordan in that capacity? It nearly decimated her life — and it did cost her her marriage — when she broke the rules for Marcus Taggert (Réal Andrews). Another scheme like that could cost Jordan her career. No one who cares about her wants to be responsible for that.

Speaking of Jordan’s failed marriage, her ex, Curtis Ashford (Donnell Turner), has been hanging around at rather convenient times lately. He’s going to be around for this, too. Trina Robinson (Tabyana Ali) is trapped aboard The Haunted Star as well, and Jordan will be working day and night to bring her home safely — with Curtis by her side doing his part to help.

After all, General Hospital spoilers show Trina may be his daughter, and he always loved her like she was. In the meantime, he’s going to get a front row seat to the drama between Jordan and her colleagues. When she is noticeably bothered by their dishonesty, Curtis will be there to catch her tears. Will this serve as the beginning of something new for this former couple? Stay tuned for more General Hospital news and spoilers just ahead.