The Motorola Razr series is set to launch soon. The company is tipped to launch two new foldable phones later this year. There were rumours of the Motorola Razr Plus 2023 launching as a premium clamshell-style foldable phone. However, a new leak reveals that the phone will actually be called the Motorola Razr Pro. Alongside this, the company will also launch an affordable version of its premium foldable smartphone. This will be called the Motorola Razr Lite.

Tipster Max Jambor has now revealed the launch date of the two Motorola foldable phones. Let’s take a look at the Motorola Razr Pro, Razr Lite specifications, features and other details revealed so far.

The Motorola Razr series is set to launch soon. The company is tipped to launch two new foldable phones later this year. There were rumours of the Motorola Razr Plus 2023 launching as a premium clamshell-style foldable phone. However, a new leak reveals that the phone will actually be called the Motorola Razr Pro. Alongside this, the company will also launch an affordable version of its premium foldable smartphone. This will be called the Motorola Razr Lite.

Tipster Max Jambor has now revealed the launch date of the two Motorola foldable phones. Let’s take a look at the Motorola Razr Pro, Razr Lite specifications, features and other details revealed so far.

Motorola will debut two premium foldable phones later this year. There will be the Motorola Razr Pro sitting above the Razr Lite foldable phone. Jambor, who has a reputation for accurate leaks related to OnePlus and Samsung products, has now revealed the launch date of the Motorola foldable phones. The tipster claims that the Razr Pro and Razr Lite will launch in Madrid on June 1.

We are about six weeks away from the tipped launch timeline. Motorola has not confirmed any details about the same. The tipster did not reveal any details about the two foldable phones from Motorola. However, MySmartPrice recently revealed the exclusive design renders of the Motorola Razr Lite foldable phone.

The Razr Lite will have a small outer display, which is likely to be good enough for checking the time, notifications, incoming calls, etc. There is a dual-camera setup next to the cover display along with an LED flash. On the inside, the foldable display has a hole-punch cutout at the top centre for the front camera. The bezels around the foldable display, while being fairly narrow, are slightly thicker than the leaked Razr Pro 2023.

The Razr Pro, formerly known as Razr Plus, will have a massive outer display compared to currently available clamshell-style foldable phones. The cover display will occupy nearly half of the rear panel and will reportedly be bigger than the OPPO Find N2 Flip, which has a 3.26-inch outer screen.

The outer screen on the Razr Pro has cutouts for the dual-camera setup and an LED flash module. On the contrary, the foldable display on the inside is tipped to feature no cutouts anywhere for the front camera. In fact, the clamshell foldable phone is tipped to feature a front camera under the foldable display. If true, the Razr Pro might well be the first clamshell-style foldable phone to feature an under-screen front camera.

The rumour mill has not been able to reveal the specifications or features of the Razr Pro/ Lite at the time of writing this. We can expect the Razr Pro to continue sporting a 144Hz 6.7-inch OLED display. The foldable phone might pack a top-end Snapdragon or MediaTek SoC under the hood.

The device was spotted on 3C with 33W fast charging support. It is likely to pack a 3640mAh battery under the hood. What are your thoughts on the upcoming Razr foldable phones? Let us know in the comments below.