If you’re a student from the University of Puerto Rico, Río Piedras Campus (UPR-RP) you know that grabbing a bite somewhere inside campus is limited. The majority of coffee shops and restaurants are outside of the campus on what’s called University Avenue. So, if you’re planning on attending this university, prepare to walk a lot or bring your own lunch. And as far as college life goes, the student body tends to be, well: broke. So, for those who are stuck with walking and counting their pennies during the week, here is your friendly guide to the low-budget places to eat at La IUPI!

During my first year, I was a Biology major student which meant that I had to take lots of tutoring if I wanted to pass Chemistry. While that’s a whole other article, being tutored at night, alongside a bunch of freshmen, helped me find the treasure that is Arrope. This coffee shop was created with UPR-RP students in mind; they provide spaces so the students can study quietly, eat delicious food, and refresh themselves with non-alcoholic beverages and coffee. The prices are amazing and they always have lunch specials for everyday of the week, but the food is what gets me coming back. I’ve yet to try everything on the menu. They open from Monday to Sunday at 7AM and close at 9PM.

While I was brainstorming which places to add to this list, I debated whether to put this one because it’s pretty well-known to UPR-RP students. That was until I had this unique encounter with one of my fellow and newest HC members who hasn’t had a lot of in-person time on campus. I asked her if she wanted to eat at “Los Mexicanos,” as most of us call it, or at the Pizza place next to it, but she didn’t know because she hadn’t gone to any of them. Sometimes, what seems like common knowledge to some people might not be for others. So, if you don’t know about this place, let me introduce you to “El Rancho Mexicano”, where you’ll find Mexican food at a good price. My favorite plate has to be the chicken quesadillas. Fun fact: when we were away from university because of COVID-19, I missed the food from “El Rancho Mexicano” so much, I tried to recreate the quesadillas. Another fun fact: the first time I bought the quesadillas after the pandemic was for an in-person Her Campus bonding event. Thank you, guys!

There’s no better deal than eating a delicious slice of pizza with soda for less than $5. And how can I not mention the one place the HC UPR staff buys the pizza for our bonding events from?! I will admit that for the entirety of my years in this University, I have yet to try the Criolla food they make. Which is a shame, I am very much aware. Every time I go to this place I’m either in a hurry or really craving pizza, so I don’t stare too long at the rice that keeps begging me to buy it. I do have friends that have tried it and absolutely love it.

If you’re in the mood for ramen and some walking, I have the place for you! Kamakura is a restaurant with Asiatic, criolla, and creative food. Although you really have to walk a bit to get here, the food is certainly worth it. I actually have a good memory from this place: It was Friday afternoon, my best friend was craving ramen, and we had a good meal, and exchanged some gifts, because why not? Now, every time I feel like going there I feel like I should go with her to keep the tradition.

For some of you, ice cream and boba tea may not be food, but listen, we’re college students, anything can be food. Just like Kamakura, I have fond memories of Icy & Bubo. I was eating pizza at La Pastizzería with a friend, when we spontaneously decided that we needed some ice cream rolls. The owners were super sweet with us when we got there and it was very fun to see the process of how this ice cream came to life. I immediately followed their Instagram and that’s when I found out how involved they are in university activities that celebrate Asian culture. If you haven’t visited them, you sure have to!

There are other places inside of the University like Boca Boca, a small coffee shop in the Natural Science faculty building, which sells really good food at lunchtime; La Fonda, a criollo food cafeteria located in the General Studies faculty; Alberto’s, a small frappes shop where they sell hamburgers and other foods located in the Complejo Deportivo building; Los Merenderos, a mini food court located in the Social Science faculty building; and IUPICOP, a coffee shop located in the Students Center where you can also find another food establishment on the first floor. While I admit there aren’t an array of options inside campus and that the University should do something about it, there are some hopeful places. If you want to try some of these localities, remember: you’re in La IUPI, just ask someone; they’ll be glad to help.