Laura Woods has shared that Mikel Arteta told her during a private dinner at the Emirates that Arsenal are thinking about the Champions League ‘right now’.

The talkSPORT host, who is an Arsenal fan, added that Mikel Arteta told her that he wants the Gunners to ‘properly compete’ in the Champions League next season and not just make up the numbers.

Champions League football has now been sealed for next season for the north London club, which was their main aim at the start of the campaign.

But those at the Emirates have punched well above their weight, and whilst the club has to plan for Champions League football, they also have the small matter of having to deal with their Premier League title race.

Pep Guardiola’s all-dominant Manchester City are breathing down Arsenal’s neck and they have big fish to fry.

But, Laura Woods shared what Arteta was like as she had a private dinner with the Arsenal boss last night, as she told talkSPORT Breakfast (19/04/23).

“I went to the diamond club last night,” said Woods. “At the Emirates, they have this event for the diamond club and the box holders. It’s like an annual event.

“Mikel Arteta was there – before you go and do the event with the diamond club members, you get to sit down and have like a private dinner with everybody. And I got to sit next to Mikel Arteta. It was very cool. Exceptional (table manners from Arteta). He was wonderful and very personable.

“I said ‘have you got an eye on the Champions League yet? Or do you have to wait until you know it’s there and then start preparing?’ He was like ‘no, no, no. We are thinking about it right now. We don’t just want to be a part of the Champions League. We don’t want to make up the numbers. We want them to properly compete’.”

At the start of the season, if Arsenal fans were offered the chance to finish second, then many would have accepted it because it meant another step forward and a return to the elite.

But, they have dominated for large parts of the season and sat at the top of the table for long periods.

So, if they finish second in May, then it wouldn’t be a surprise if some fans are a little deflated by the campaign, even though they have met the season’s objective.