We’ve talked in previous programs about the fact that we’re bond-slaves to Christ. This is absolutely true. But just like the many and varied names of God reveal different characteristics to God’s nature and personality, we can be children, slaves and friends of God all at the same time because our relationship with Him is also diverse and varied.

Abraham was called “friend of God”. That is an extraordinary thing to be called by the God of all creation. One particular place where this friendship is displayed most profoundly is when God called Abraham to sacrifice his son on Mount Moriah. The event that took place on Mount Moriah has had a ripple effect throughout human history that is still being felt to this day, it continues to reverberate and it won’t stop until God plans for humanity have been achieved and then for all eternity, we’ll be celebrating what happened on Mount Moriah. That even was a very intimate portion of the relationship between God and Abraham, when they shared some of the most painful emotions together.

Firstly, the story in Genesis 22 is Abraham’s response to God’s call. God called to him and said, “Abraham”, and Abraham responded with, “Here I am” – or “hineni” which in Hebrew is an expression of unconditional availability. If you or I were to examine our own relationship with God, could we say that we would respond to Him and His instruction with UNCONDITIONAL availability? Mostly, the answer would be, “no” because in our mind, it would depend on the instructions.

Secondly you notice what God said next. In the Hebrew it reveals that the wording God uses is not precisely the wording of a command, but is more akin to a request that you don’t see in the English. God doesn’t say words like, “I command you this day to take your son and sacrifice him to Me.”  He simply lays out the instruction with, “Take your son, your only son, the son that you love”, and the wording is laden with emotion because God even stresses the fact that Abraham loves his son very much; it’s similar to God’s first instruction to Abraham, when He told him to “Go,” to leave his country, the land of his relatives and the home of his father, and travel to a land you don’t know at all. That’s a hugely emotional and costly thing to do.

Finally, you notice that this is the very first time the word “love” is used in the Bible. Often the first mention of a word or concept is key to unlocking its meaning in the broader picture of the Bible, it’s called the ‘law of first mention.’ The idea of love comes first in this concept – a father’s willingness to sacrifice a beloved son on Mount Moriah – so the kind of love mentioned is the love that a father has for his son.

The text explains that old father Abraham is the one who split the wood which is heavy work for an elderly man, and they go off to the mountain of God’s choosing together. Together they carry the wood up the mountain, to the very place that Jesus would later be crucified. Isaac innocently asks about the sacrifice, and his dad assures him, “God will provide for Himself the lamb for the burnt offering, my son.” (Gen 22:8)

According to Jewish tradition, Isaac’s hands and feet were bound behind his back, and with that imagery in your head, it’s difficult to even begin to imagine the thoughts and emotions that must have been racing through Abraham’s head as he held the knife up high ready to strike, while looking into the eyes of his son, Isaac.

All those thoughts and emotions would have been clamoring around in Abraham’s brain, it would have been an excruciating moment…the pain and inner turmoil would have been almost unbearable… As a parent I can’t fathom the inner struggle and questioning that Abraham must have gone through in those split seconds, wondering what God was doing and wondering why such a perfect and holy God would ever expect such a thing from him? Abraham had left paganism behind when He obeyed God’s initial instructions to leave his home, family and country and go to a new place and serve God there. We’ve learned before that Abraham was the first Hebrew – Ivrim – one who crossed over, traversed and crossed over into new life with the One True God.

However, the Bible actually tells us clearly what God’s reasoning was with this seemingly outrageous instruction, in that this was a test that God was giving to Abraham, it’s not an admission that God is into human or child sacrifice, it’s an admission of issuing a test to His chosen man.

Genesis 22:1, ‘Now it came about after these things that God tested Abraham, and said to him, “Abraham!” And he said, “Here I am.” He said, “Take now your son, your only son, whom you love, Isaac, and go to the land of Moriah, and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains of which I will tell you.”’

Didn’t God already know what was in Abraham’s heart and how he would respond to such instruction? Of course God knew how Abraham would respond, He’s God after all! But Abraham didn’t know how he’d respond until God gave the instruction.

The instruction needed to be made so that Abraham would see for himself how he was willing to trust God and the promises He’d made to him and his son. This was faith lesson 101 by God to Abraham about trusting in the faithfulness of God and His promises.

God was also allowing Abraham to to see how ready and willing his own heart of faith truly was? But it was even more than that. This account in Genesis 22 reveals God’s heart toward Abraham and how He felt toward him; it’s a picture of God bringing His friend, Abraham, to the place where God’s own Son would be slaughtered, so that God could share some of His heart and pain over this experience with Abraham?

There are many Christian scholars who believe that Abraham understood that this entire event was significantly prophetic, that he was ‘acting out prophecy’ even if he didn’t quite understand it at the time. It’s possible that because Abraham understood the way covenants worked in the ancient world, that by offering his own son Isaac to God, God was now obligated to offer His own Son to Abraham. Both God and Abraham shared an intimate moment of comprehension and understanding of what price had to be paid in order for their covenant relationship to progress and for the future promises to be fulfilled. Abraham didn’t withhold his son from God and we know that God didn’t withhold His Son from Abraham and his descendants either, of which we are adoptees.

This is why God can call a man, a human being, His friend.

Perhaps this is also what Paul was writing about when he talked about the “fellowship of sufferings” in Philippians 3:10-11, ‘That I may know Him and the power of His resurrection and the fellowship of His sufferings, being conformed to His death; in order that I may attain to the resurrection of the dead.” At least in small part perhaps.

We have the awesome privilege of drawing close to the heart of God too as He calls us His friends, and sometimes, He invites us and draws us in to share some of His pain as well. We’re His friends and we’re also supposed to submit as bond-slaves and also as His loving children.

Are you and I prepared to let God share with us some of His thoughts, some of His pain and His feeling toward the rest of His rebellious human creations? To let Him show you how He feels about some of the things in His own heart? Will we be willing to listen, to be unconditionally available to Him and His instructions?

Our goal of course, is to always say ‘yes’, but it’s always a journey, a process that each step brings us closer to achieving.

Based on an article at oneforisrael.org