At Boeing, we innovate and collaborate to make the world a better place. From the seabed to outer space, you can contribute to work that matters with a company where diversity, equity and inclusion are shared values. We’re committed to fostering an environment for every teammate that’s welcoming, respectful and inclusive, with great opportunity for professional growth. Find your future with us.

The Boeing Company is currently seeking a Mid-Level Environmental Engineer to join the team.

Environmental compliance, waste minimization, and stewardship are important to us (see our 2022 Sustainability Report here for more information). As a member of the Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) team you will help ensure that hazardous waste from our sites is managed safely. As part of our Enterprise Environment Treatment, Storage, and Disposal Facility team you will provide a critical due diligence function to make sure that sites handling our waste streams are meeting or exceeding both Boeing standards and all regulatory requirements. You’ll work with EHS colleagues and waste management facilities across the country, outside consultants, and others in this position. Occasional travel to support facility reviews will be part of your responsibilities.

This position allows the candidate to be based in one of the following: Renton, WA; Tukwila, WA; Auburn, WA; Puyallup, WA; Everett, WA, or Seattle, WA.

* Assesses the impact of emerging environmental issues, legislation and regulations on company operations

This position is hybrid. The selected candidate will be required to perform some work onsite at one of the listed location options.  This is at the hiring team’s discretion and could potentially change in the future.

The position must meet Export Control compliance requirements, therefore a “US Person” as defined by 22 C. F.R. § 120.15 is required. “US Person” includes US Citizen, lawful permanent resident, refugee, or asylee.

* 3+ years of experience with environmental engineering over multiple media types (chemical, air, waste water, storm water, hazardous waste etc.)

* 3+ years of experience with environmental compliance, environmental programs, spill procedures, air quality, and water quality

* Experience supporting due diligence reviews, or equivalent processes for hazardous waste treatment, storage, disposal facilities (or municipal solid waste landfills, waste management or recycling operations)

Education/experience typically acquired through advanced technical education from an accredited course of study in engineering, computer science, mathematics, physics or chemistry (e.g. Bachelor) and typically 5 or more years related work experience or an equivalent combination of technical education and experience (e.g. PhD, Master+3 years related work experience). In the USA, ABET accreditation is the preferred, although not required, accreditation standard.

Relocation assistance is not a negotiable benefit for this position. Candidates must live in the immediate area or relocate at their own expense.

Boeing is a Drug Free Workplace where post offer applicants and employees are subject to testing for marijuana, cocaine, opioids, amphetamines, PCP, and alcohol when criteria is met as outlined in our policies.

This position will be for first shift.

At Boeing, we strive to deliver a Total Rewards package that will attract, engage and retain the top talent. Elements of the Total Rewards package include competitive base pay and variable compensation opportunities.

The Boeing Company also provides eligible employees with an opportunity to enroll in a variety of benefit programs, generally including health insurance, flexible spending accounts, health savings accounts, retirement savings plans, life and disability insurance programs, and a number of programs that provide for both paid and unpaid time away from work.

The specific programs and options available to any given employee may vary depending on eligibility factors such as geographic location, date of hire, and the applicability of collective bargaining agreements.

Please note that the salary information shown below is a general guideline only. Salaries are based upon candidate experience and qualifications, as well as market and business considerations.

U.S. Government Export Control Status: This position must meet export control compliance requirements. To meet export control compliance requirements, a “U.S. Person” as defined by 22 C.F.R. §120.15 is required. “U.S. Person” includes U.S. Citizen, lawful permanent resident, refugee, or asylee.US based job, US Person required

Boeing is an Equal Opportunity Employer. Employment decisions are made without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, age, physical or mental disability, genetic factors, military/veteran status or other characteristics protected by law.