Kenneth Horsey is being counted on to play a pivotal role for the Kentucky football team this season when he moves back to offensive guard where he played in 2021 when UK won 10 games. He played left tackle last year out of necessity to help the team — which is a genuine Horsey trait.

It’s no surprise he has been named one of three finalists for the 13th annual Pop Warner College Football Award given by Pop Warner Little Scholars to the student-athlete who has displayed extraordinary leadership on the football field, in the classroom and in the community.

It’s hard to imagine anyone who has met those qualifications better than Horsey, a Florida native who has an inspiring story that he has shared often to help others.

He had a pain in his side in the spring of 2018 just before his high school graduation. Doctors found a growth on one of his heart valves during an emergency room examination and he had had open heart surgery. He was told by some doctors he would never play football again but Horsey recovered, came to UK and redshirted during the 2018 season.

Horsey became a starter in the Big Blue Wall and has started 33 straight games going into the 2023 season.

However, Horsey did more than just become a starter for coach Mark Stoops. He became a spokesman for the American Heart Association and in 2021 was named the Finn Collier Service Award winner by the American Heart Association for his work to support its lifesaving mission. He also was named to the Allstate AFCA Good Works Team for his volunteer work with the AHA.

Horsey has volunteered for numerous American Heart Association events the last three years. He even coordinated a hands-on CPR training for the UK Football team and staff in 2021 and held a CPR media availability that promoted CPR awareness.

He graduated in December of 2021 with a communications major and is now working on a master’s degree in social work.

Former UK tight end CJ Conrad, now a graduate assistant on the UK staff, won the Pop Warner award in 2018.

This year’s award winner will be announced in May as part of the organization’s All-American Scholars celebration which recognizes Pop Warner student-athletes for their academic accomplishments.