The City of North Bay is launching an operational review of all departments to identify areas of improvement and to help ensure the most efficient and effective use of public funds.

North Bay City Council unanimously passed a resolution in early December 2022 directing then-CAO David Euler to initiate the process for a comprehensive third-party independent operational review of the City of North Bay.

See related: City in for independent third-party operational review?

To that end, a Request for Proposals (RFP) was issued this week seeking submissions from industry experts to conduct this independent, third-party review, according to a news release from the City of North Bay. The submission period closes on May 2.

The purpose of the review is to "examine the organizational structure, personnel and resources required in the delivery of services and projects in all departments and benchmark key performance indicators against other like organizations," according to the motion tabled by Councillor Jamie Lowery and seconded by Deputy Mayor Maggie Horsfield late last year. The evaluation is designed to investigate the organization's overall effectiveness and to ensure value for the taxpayer — and thanks to an amendment from Coun. Gary Gardiner and Coun. Mark King, to "recommend innovative technologies that have been proven to improve operational efficiencies."

The impending operational review also played a crucial part in many of the discussions made during this year's municipal budget process.

“This review is an important step in determining how we are to move forward as a city. We need to look at all our operations, not only to help find efficiencies and savings but to set targets and track our performance,” said Mayor Peter Chirico. “You can't improve what you don't measure. This review will provide an objective analysis that will help to identify what we’re doing well and what areas may need improvement.”

See: Mayor: City review seeks 'the good, the bad, and the ugly'

The review will examine the organizational structure, personnel and resources required in the delivery of services and projects in all departments. It will benchmark key performance indicators against comparable municipalities and like organizations and will provide recommended options to improve operational effectiveness, including proven innovative technologies and models.

It will be customer focused and will look to balance the financial stability of the corporation and the ability of the community to pay for the delivery of service expected by residents and businesses. The review is expected to take approximately nine months to complete.

* Identifying existing services/programs as core, essential or other.

* Identifying opportunities for improved service delivery and methods to achieve greater efficiency.

* Identifying the most cost-effective, sustainable, and strategic way to structure operations.

* Identifying and prioritizing opportunities to guide the implementation of recommendations.

“The City recognizes that it is good business and public practice to undertake such reviews from time to time to ensure that our structure and operations are able to effectively, efficiently and sustainably meet community expectations, Council priorities and legislative requirements,” said John Severino, the City’s

interim Chief Administrative Officer. “I look forward to the opportunity to share what we do, how we do it and most importantly, why we do it.”