Imagine Dragons singer Dan Reynolds and his estranged wife Aja Volkman are splitting for good after she filed for divorce.

According to court records seen by TMZ, Volkman filed on Tuesday in Los Angeles.

The 43-year-old Nico Vega singer and her 35-year old ex previously announced their separation in September of 2022.

Reynolds appeared to have moved on with the actress Minka Kelly just a month after revealing the separation, though they haven't clarified exactly when their relationship started.

The announcement followed a tumultuous history between the exes.

Just a year after the parents of four welcomed twin girls, Reynolds announced a separation from his wife in April 2018 after '7 beautiful years together.'

But the two hinted at a reconciliation later in the year, and Volkman shared a blurry photo of the two kissing to celebrate the new year at the start of 2019, confirming that they were back together.

Later that year, the two announced they were expecting their fourth child.

In June of 2019, Reynolds revealed that he and Volkman were undergoing marriage counseling to 'keep our family strong.'

The birth of their first child in late 2019 seemed to have resuscitated the marriage, and two years later in March of 2021, he posted a video revealing that a last-minute text message from Volkman had convinced him to hold off on signing divorce papers and reuniting.

But the second chance at marital bliss was short lived, and Reynolds announced their second, and seemingly final, separation in September of last year.

The former couple share three daughters — Arrow, 10, and twins Gia and Coco, five — and one son: Valentine, three.

It was just over a month after he shared the sad news that he was spotted grabbing dinner with Minka Kelly at a restaurant in Los Angeles.

The lovebirds were seen holding hands a day later, confirming that they were serious, and they have been spotted together on romantic outings several times over the last few months.

Kelly is set to release a memoir detailing her difficult childhood and her experiences with an abusive and controlling boyfriend, though it's unclear if her burgeoning romance with Reynolds will make it into the book.

The musician has been the lead singer and frontman for the popular pop rock band Imagine Dragons since co-founding it in 2008 when he was a student at Brigham Young University in Utah.