The LIV golfers are feeling genuine appreciation from Australian fans ahead of the breakaway tour's inaugural event in Adelaide starting Friday.

Brooks Koepka, Dustin Johnson and Patrick Reed went to Adelaide Oval on Sunday night to watch Collingwood take on St Kilda in a top-of-the-ladder clash in the AFL's Gather Round and were impressed by what they saw.

'I mean, the hitting going on is pretty impressive.

'Sometimes you just wonder how the hell they walk away from it - and they just get up and shake it off and keep moving [...] they're tough.'

The trio headline LIV Golf's first ever event in Australia along with reigning Open champion Cameron Smith, who is relishing being back in his homeland.

Aside from seeing friends and family again, the best thing about being back in Australia is the humble meat pie.

'I flew into Brisbane on Thursday and I ate my weight in meat pies already,' he said on Wednesday.

The United States-based golfer is also thankful of not having to set an early morning alarm to watch his beloved Brisbane Broncos in the NRL.

'I wake up and watch the Broncos play every Friday, Saturday morning when I am over there [in the US]. I love it,' Smith said.

'My whole family played rugby league basically their whole life. I played until I was about 11 and then I realised I was too small.'

Smith captains an all Australian LIV team called Ripper GC featuring compatriots Matt Jones, Marc Leishman and Jed Morgan.

And he reckoned the Aussies might have an advantage in the looming tournament at Grange Golf Club in Adelaide's west.

'For all the boys it's nice to be back in Australia, see some friends and family and hopefully we can come out with a victory this weekend,' Smith said.

'Aussie golf is so much different to everywhere else around the world.

'For us, it's nice to get that firm and short grass. A few of the other boys might not like it so much.

'So many good memories on Australian golf courses and everyone feels comfy.'

Koepka and Johnson have certainly felt comfortable so far in Australia and shared their appreciation for the warm welcome they have received in Adelaide.

'You see a lot of people just passing by you, either in the hotel or at the game," Koepka said.

'Everyone is just super appreciative that we made the trip down here and we're playing.

'It has been a long time since anybody [in Australia] has really been able to see the quality of field that we're bringing this week.'

'I felt very welcome,' he said.

'I don't know when the last time, or if, Adelaide has ever had a big golf tournament [...] everyone is excited for us to be here.'