Call for Abstracts – AJIL Unbound: AJIL Unbound is accepting submissions of no more than 300 words until 6 June 2023 focused on logics and practices of private international law. The symposium will also honor the life and work of Karen Knop. For more information, click here.

Call for Papers – Grotian law and Modernity at the Dawn of a New Age

400 years of De jure belli ac pacis 1625-2025: On the occasion of the 400th anniversary of the first publication of De jure belli ac pacis by Hugo Grotius in 1625, an international conference will be organized by the Grotiana

Foundation, the Paul Scholten Centre for Jurisprudence at the University of Amsterdam, the Grotius Centre for International Legal Studies at the University of Leiden and the Department of Public Law and Governance at Tilburg University. Abstracts of 250-400 words are due by 1 May. For more information, click here.

Virtual book launch – “Ignorance and Blame in International Criminal Law” (19 April 2023, 5pm UK / 12pm EST, on Zoom): On the occasion of the launch of Antonio Coco’s “The Defence of Mistake of Law in International Criminal Law: A Study on Ignorance and Blame” (Oxford University Press, 2022), the author and the panelists (Paola Gaeta, Oumar Ba, Kate Gibson, Matthew Cross) will engage in a conversation about what it means for an individual defendant to know the relevant law, about the role of the defence of mistake of law in international criminal proceedings, and about the imputation of blame to individuals for international crimes. Registration is free here.

New Episode of ‘Emerging Law Voices’: The Brunel University London School of Law Podcast: The newest episode of the BUL Podcast features Douglas Wilson OBE, Director-General of the UK Attorney-General’s Office and former Legal Advisor in the Foreign Office, discussing about the role of civil servants, the constitution, the war in Ukraine, the UN Security Council as well as about the structure and tasks of the Attorney-General’s Office. Watch on YouTube or listen on Spotify.