Three teens were charged with second-degree murder and first-degree feticide

Three teens were charged with second-degree murder and first-degree feticide

A pregnant Louisiana woman who was days from giving birth was killed along with her unborn baby by a group of teens who shot into her car in a case of mistaken identity.

Kerisha Johnson, 36, was shot early on Sunday while trying to collect people from a party in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, police said.

Johnson, who was nine months pregnant and 'due to give birth within several days,' was found dead inside her vehicle by police officers responding to reports of shots fired, according to an arrest warrant.

During their investigation, police found that the event was an Easter party, with a mostly teenage crowd.

Detectives learned that Johnson was driving toward the party when 'several individuals' started shooting at her white sedan.

They believed she was someone who, driving a similar car, earlier shot into the air near the party, according to the warrant.

Johnson tried to escape but sustained injuries, killing her and her unborn child, according to the warrant.

'It was just senseless,' Deanna Williams, a childhood friend of Johnson, told Baton Rouge ABC affiliate WBRZ. 'She was an innocent person.'

Video footage shows the alleged gunmen 'raising firearms, pointing them at the victim's vehicle and then firing,' before fleeing the scene, according to the warrant.

Baton Rouge police arrested three teenagers in connection with the shooting.

Marques Porch, Gregory Parker and Derrick Curry, all 19, were charged with second-degree murder and first-degree feticide, according to the Baton Rouge Police Department.

They allegedly told detectives they were armed at the time of the incident, according to the warrant.

'They all stated that they believed the white car was a vehicle from earlier in the night where [an] occupant had fired a round into the air as it drove past the teen party,' the warrant stated.

Porch allegedly told the police that he provided the firearms to the other two teens prior to the shooting, according to the warrant. He was shot while fleeing the scene but his injuries were not life-threatening injuries, police said.

The three suspects were ordered held without bond during a court appearance on Monday, East Baton Rouge Parish Courthouse officials confirmed to ABC News. They are being held at the East Baton Rouge Parish Prison, online jail records show.

Until his arrest, Porch was a corrections employee with the West Baton Rouge Sheriff's Office.

He was a corrections officer from June to November 2022, before returning as a part-time employee in February as a transportation driver, according to a sheriff's office spokesperson.

He was 'immediately terminated' on Sunday upon notification of his arrest, the sheriff's office said in a statement.