Introduction:

It is not a long time since when consumers completely dig themselves into the online shopping arena. From their preferences of choosing companies to their daily lifestyle, everything has changed within a blink due to the high impact of the popularity of B2B wholesale marketplaces.

These B2B marketplaces come up with different benefits, flexible payment methods from mobile banking to cash payment, and effortless business operations with the blessing of cloud technologies. With all this help, it becomes easier for retailers like you to offer consumers the best experiences that have ever had in their lifetime. Get along with us in having the best pick B2B wholesale marketplaces dedicated to all fashion retailers.

What does even mean by B2B Marketplace?

A B2B marketplace simply refers to the theme of bringing B2B buyers and sellers into one platform to conduct transactions on a single website. B2B, business-to-business is just commerce that fulfills the supply purchase needs of businesses. B2B businesses are also popularly known as procurement websites, supply catalogs, purchasing platforms, and in many different names. A few of the B2B marketplaces are Amazon and Alibaba.

B2B marketplace sellers can be like you, the retailers, the wholesalers, or any manufacturer out there who would sell products to other businesses in a form of expansion. The benefit is that these marketplaces enable the accessibility of retailers to a larger audience where the retailers can leave their footprint beyond the conventional.

Insights on Global B2B Marketplace:

B2B marketplace involves the transaction of goods and services where another business is either retailer or wholesaler. The Market size of this B2B eCommerce was around US $9000 billion in the year 2021. The B2B marketplace comes up with different niches like healthcare, and automotive. In that case, choose your business niche carefully. The B2B marketplace is huge in North America due to the presence of Amazon, and eBay these types of giant companies. Asia Pacific is the 2nd largest B2B marketplace destination.

The B2B marketplace also offers a multi-purpose benefit. For instance:

Traders can transact easily without making any cost on exporting and importing items other than the real value. Transaction data can be directly integrated into the computer system of the company.Testing and validating the new product ideas.

The Best Pick 15 B2B Wholesale Marketplace for Retailers

1. Amazon:

Amazon is now the largest marketplace of B2B wholesale globally. Amazon is not just a website rather it is a hub where billions of products are contained. Whether you want to make a better purchase decision or compare products with another B2B marketplace, Amazon offers you both including the descriptions, manufacturing details, functions, and specifications. Besides, Amazon has an amazing collection and categories of products where wholesalers easily select products based on their inventory type. B2B businesses are also beneficial in getting a free-exchange policy where you can sell and place orders in larger quantities. Besides, retailers like you can also track overnight delivery benefits.

2. Alibaba:

Alibaba, or the ‘Amazon of China’ in the market of Asia is another giant B2B wholesale clothing marketplace. Here, more than 80% of sales come from mainland China. The supportive policies regarding this wholesale marketplace are appreciated. For Chinese manufacturers, Alibaba has become a potential warehouse where they wish to import and distribute their manufactured products worldwide. Benefits are wide-ranging here at Alibaba. Because Alibaba has stuck to the policy of solid growth with flexible shipping options with a user-friendly system of rating.

3. EWorldTrade:

A full-service marketplace for B2B wholesale is none other than EWorldTrade. With more than 10 years+ of experience in digital branding as well as web building, the marketplace has grown into having over 500,000 registered members. The database is increasingly growing up. Moreover, EWorldTrade has become a global hub of manufacturers, suppliers, and retailers from all over the world to create and meet the demands of severe commercial competitiveness. The secure, fast, and dependable trading environment is what matters at the end of the day.

4. BigCommerce:

BigCommerce is a popular platform as a B2B wholesale marketplace for retailers. Among sellers, It works like an integrative solution where the key selling point is creating trustworthy custom shipping rates for B2B buyers. Established in 2019, BigCommerce enables buyers to have the possibility to replicate the one-click Amazon using different generation tools. Here, B2B BigCommerce creates a joint marketplace for more than 60,000 brands.

5. DH Gate:

DHgate is another B2B website where you can purchase Chinese goods at reasonable wholesale prices. Items like electronics, garment, sports equipment, and other ornamental items are available. Besides, the selling point of DHgates products is more than 230 countries all over the world where 7 million customers directly interact through the internet. However, you may see DHgate as a global vendor market as well where it is impossible to scam with products.

6. eBay:

You can assume eBay is a pathway or connector between millions of sellers and buyers. eBay has been operating in more than 190 markets all over the world. They want to grow with businesses no matter how small the ranges are. Around 1.7B approximate num of live listings are there.

7. TradeFord:

TradeFord is one of the most genuine B2B online directory marketplaces. It is a trusted eCommerce marketplace where it connects sellers and buyers in the wholesale trading arena. All you need is to register for creating an account, that’s it, you are ready to sell products by adding them to the TradeFord Directory. If you have pre-set sales with an extensive shipping system, TradeFord can be a considerable option for you. Most importantly, TradeFord operated in forums so as a retailer you can promote your brand and earn leads as well as responses from other B2B sellers.

8. Fiber2Fashion:

Fiber2Fashion is another market-driven portal of B2B wholesale for retailers. In 2000, it marked its existence and since then it has been growing increasingly. Their accountability and new innovative ideas foster the business of any business of small, large, and medium companies. Currently, more than 190 countries have a presence digitally in Fiber2Fashion in carving a niche. With more than 1800+ products, this segment is what serves every single effective business solution with technical expertise.

9. Faire:

Faire, established in 2017, has grown a lot and has taken user base opportunities for over 120,000 wholesalers. Faire is another B2B marketplace where small B2B businesses get their experiences fulfilled by getting exciting offers on new orders and reorder (25%, and 15%). On the other hand, Faire, being constantly growing up, offers many new opportunities for wholesalers. The niche of the products is homeware, kitchenware, fashion accessories, skincare, stationery, pet supplies, and party supplies.

10. Global Sources:

Global Sources is another B2B platform for high-quality vendors from different industries. In this marketplace, Chinese manufacturers pay a substantial fee intending to get the recognition of the supplier. Global sources as a B2B platform bring dealers from all over the world and encourage worldwide trade. Moreover, these platforms are based on durability, functionality, customer service, and international trade with regulatory principles. No doubt, Global sources are a secure place for retailers in many senses.

You may also like: Sourcing of Fabrics and Trims in Apparel Industry

11. Shopify:

Shopify is the leading B2B eCommerce platform because of its simplicity and efficiency. This platform is for those online businesses who want to make their products sold online effortlessly. The website comes up with a simple design and configuration. Retailers like you can market products using different campaign marketing with Shopify email and Facebook ads. Shopify allows them to update every dashboard of data. Walking around Shopify can get you all those features in need.

12. Etsy:

Etsy, a leading B2B wholesale marketplace, offers incredible features for retailers. It is an open-source yet premium version to accelerate business in the long run. Etsy has an intuitive feature of built-in policy where website designing with editable content layouts is easily accessible. Besides, it has exciting features like increasing engagement with seamless integration with Amazon, inventory management, and custom category pages. With flexible customization and easy-to-handle information, Etsy scales up with large B2B businesses.

13. Amazon Business:

Amazon business is a wholesale B2B marketplace for small businesses, distributors, or larger organizations out there with a target to reach business customers. B2B eCommerce can be enabled by supporting a specialized tool. It also finds new ways to get accustomed to the business customers through premium Amazon experience by existing professional sellers. So, the B2B wholesale marketplace controls price, fulfillment, promoting business, and managing stores.

* Help Center: Fill out the form here.

14. Tundra:

Tundra, a platform of more than 25,000 retailers, is the largest online wholesale B2B marketplace in the USA. Here, over 2 million products are available from 10,000 independent brands. Tundra Charles has no fees in form of transactions and commissions. Rather, suppliers offer the best wholesale price to buyers, even including 50% off MSRP.

Tundra comes up with fashion to kitchenware and kid’s toys, and every single niche out there that retails would like to invest their efforts. All you need is to open up a free account to start sourcing directly from leading brands through Tundra!

* Help Center: Fill up the form here.

15. Dropee:

Dropee, another B2B buying and selling marketplace, builds a strong partnership with its customers in exchange for credible products. Their core mission of helping local businesses to grow through creating a pathway between products and wholesale sellers is coming into good hands. Across Malaysia, their support of financial terms and logistical reach to the buyers in terms of value and service.

1. Strategies to Follow through B2B Marketplace: For Retailers

It has been estimated that more than 80% of the B2B sales will start occurring on digital channels within the year 2025. Consequently, people now want to have experiences in seamless buying and other online shopping. Here are the strategies to follow through B2B marketplaces:

* Combine different strategies of marketing and inbound type of marketing.

* Enhance communication with the B2B leads through email marketing.

* Do not forget to advertise using Paid Ads!

2. How many types of B2B marketplaces are there?

There is no specific types or classification. But you may see the B2B marketplaces as a category named Vertical, Horizontal, or Global.

Let’s start with the latter one, the Global market. It refers to customers living worldwide and not limited to a specific area of geography. After that, you have the horizontal one. It provides products from different varieties of industries year-round. None other than the best, the vertical one, where there is a particular industry for products, raw materials, and services.

3. How to choose the best B2B marketplace?

To find a successful B2B marketplace, you must follow the following tips. They are:

* Go through your business niche and target audience as per market needs.

* Start with the fundamentals using research and surveys.

* Once you’re done with these previous steps, investigate the monetization features.

4. What challenges the B2B marketplace face frequently?

Changes are usually practical in a sense where the need speaks for the action. So, no matter which changes come, the quality and consistency of business operations never fade away. Challenges are not frequent rather their ‘come into being’ may be different. However, these are challenges that the B2B marketplace always faces:

* Technological Revolution: It makes the price competitive and leaves wholesalers taking risks for less.

* Payment Method: Make sure, the payment services align with international laws in both legal and financial aspects.

* Competition in A Global Platform: The rivalry of internet exploration affects low-margin distributors.

Conclusion:

B2B, in the simple sense, the industry of Business-to-business industry is mostly emerging exponentially after COVID-19. Behind China are countries like the USA, India, and other countries that are getting followed in being B2B marketing agencies. It is high time you got familiar with the B2B marketplace for your retail store where the commercial transaction is an everyday business. In the case of sourcing materials, you would need them most. This B2B marketing is not a bore and a fool. Not only your retail store but also your close ones can be beneficial if you share our recommended B2B wholesale marketplace list in different ways. Let us know how your business has grown through our list of B2B wholesale marketplace management.