Major supermarket Lidl has recalled a chocolate product because it may contain milk which is not mentioned on the label. Lidl GB and the Food Standards Agency (FSA) have outlined what affected customers should do.

The FSA issued a risk statement regarding the recall: “This product may contain milk making it a possible health risk for anyone with an allergy or intolerance to milk or milk constituents.”

The FSA assured customers that the supermarket was taking measures to ensure their safety.

It said: “Lidl GB is recalling the above product from customers and has contacted the relevant allergy support organisations, which will tell their members about the recall.

“The company has also issued a point-of-sale notice to its customers.

Don’t miss…

Astrologer claims Charles’ star sign is ‘greedy for power'[ASTROLOGY]

Diet expert shares ideal breakfast for ‘rapid weight loss'[EXPERT]

William ‘loses his cool’ meeting celebrity body language expert claims[EXCLUSIVE]

“These notices explain to customers why the product is being recalled and tell them what to do if they have bought the product.”

Lidl’s notice read: “Lidl GB is recalling the above-mentioned product as the product may contain milk which is not declared on the label.

“This may be a possible health risk for anyone with an allergy or

intolerance to milk or milk constituents.

“If you have bought the above product and have an allergy or intolerance to milk or milk constituents, we advise you not to eat it.

“Customers are asked to return this product to the nearest store where a full refund will be given.”

The supermarket apologised customers for any inconvenience caused and thanked them for their cooperation.

Lidl urged customers to contact Customers Services on [email protected] for further information.

The FSA echoed this advice: “If you have bought the above product and have an allergy or intolerance to milk or milk constituents, do not eat it.

“Instead return it to the store from where it was purchased for a full refund. For more information, please contact [email protected]”

While food recalls are not common, they must be taken seriously when they do happen.

“Sometimes there will be a problem with a food product that means it should not be sold.

“Then it might be ‘withdrawn’ (taken off the shelves) or ‘recalled’ (when customers are asked to return the product).

“Sometimes foods have to be withdrawn or recalled if there is a risk to consumers because the allergy labelling is missing or incorrect or if there is any other food allergy risk.

“When there is a food allergy risk, the FSA will issue an Allergy Alert.”