LIVE'S Mark Consuelos has joked that a photo of him in bed with wife Kelly was actually from their 'OnlyFans feed'.

Kelly shared a photo of herself asleep in bed with husband Mark over the weekend.

She captioned the picture: "Severe prep work in progress."

In the image, Kelly is curled up on one side with the pair's two dogs.

Mark is asleep on his back, with what appear to be phones in the center of the bed, the pair having placed them there likely before falling asleep.

Kelly tagged Mark in the photo, who came to the comments with a hilarious reply.

"That was a clip from our OnlyFans feed," Mark joked of the candid snap of the pair in the bedroom.

Fans couldn't get enough of the relatable photo, taking to the comments as well with their thoughts.

One wrote: "Wait…don't you have a show to do?"

Another commented: "Looks exactly like my husband and I except they're cats at the end of the bed!"

A third wrote: "The furry children know who is stingy with sharing the bed space."

A fourth added that they'd be ready to subscribe to an OnlyFans from Kelly and Mark.

Meanwhile, Kelly and Mark learned through their psychic guest that they may act again in the future.

On the first episode of Live with Mark taking over for Ryan Seacrest, psychic Char Margolis joined the host for a special segment.

Char was on hand to answer several questions for the pair, including whether the show, with its new host and format, would last.

Of course, the answer was a resounding yes for that question.

But there were plenty more queries that Kelly and Mark had in store for Char.

Kelly got right to it as she asked a rather personal question.

She asked: "Now that we know the show is gonna survive and it's gonna be great, what about our marriage?"

Char laughed before replying: "I feel really good about it, and I was picking up a couple spirits with Mark, so I feel like there's an 'A' initial deceased, I feel like it starts with 'AN.'"

Char continued: "Antonio, or Anthony, or something like that? Do you have someone like that? Or Ann?"

Mark revealed it could be his grandmother, and Char also asked about a Miguel, his grandfather.

"Both of those spirits are with you. Are you guys doing something with real estate? And also, Kelly, I feel like there's a day when both of you will do acting again. In 2025 you'll get something in Palm Springs. I don't know that you'll have time now, but you're gonna act again."

Char wasn't finished, though, as she added one more bombshell.

"And you're not pregnant," she told Kelly and Mark.

"That would be a real miracle, Char," Kelly joked.

The segment ended shortly after that, leaving Kelly and Mark reeling from the secrets shared during the session.

Meanwhile, Kelly took a swipe at ex co-host Ryan Seacrest after making a comment to a friend in the audience.

Kelly made the joke during husband Mark's first day on the morning show, replacing Ryan.

About 15 minutes into the show, Kelly pointed out some of her friends in the audience who were there to celebrate Mark's first day.

One of her friends, Lizzie, was seated near the audience, and Kelly spoke directly to her.

"Lizzie is here, who as you know, was not a fan of Ryan Seacrest," Kelly said as she pointed out her friend in the audience.

Neither Mark nor Kelly could hold in their laughter at that remark.

Lizzie in the audience doubled over with laughter as well.

"According to Ryan," Kelly added in as she continued to giggle.

Lizzie started to shake her head in the audience.

"He's going to very angry that you're here," Kelly laughed as she continued to laugh her head off.

The pair was in good spirits as they continued laughing and went on to the next segment.

Meanwhile, Live critics have predicted the talk show will be getting axed soon after Kelly Ripa's husband replaced long-time host Ryan Seacrest.

Live with Kelly, 52, and Ryan, 48, has now changed its name to Live with Kelly and Mark as it welcomes the Riverdale actor as its newest co-host.

The big change arrived with Monday’s new episode, which was the first broadcast of the show with its new name and co-hosting duo.

On the show’s official Instagram, they shared a promo video with Kelly and Mark, and reminded fans to make sure to set their DVRs for the program’s new name.

In the comments section, though, many critics slammed the new pairing and admitted they think the show will be ending soon.

“Not Interested," one person wrote as another predicted: “This is when it gets canceled.”

“Not good,” a third follower said of Mark taking over for Ryan.

A fourth critic shared they’re “not interested either” and explained they’re concerned the married couple will only be talking “about themselves” on the show.

“The beginning of the end... what a waste,” another user blasted.