Three counselling services in Waterloo region are now one.

The three former organizations — Carizon Family and Community Services, KW Counselling Services and Monica Place — have now merged to become Camino Wellbeing + Mental Health.

CEO Tracy Elop said the new organization wants to "improve community service" and use resources "more effectively and expand programs."

People who have been currently using groups and programs and take part in other services will not notice any change, they said.

"We know the mental health needs in Waterloo region have escalated since the pandemic, and we need to make sure that we spend the resources that we have as wisely as possible and funnel as much of those resources into frontline services for our community as we can," Elop said.

"There were a number of people within the community, like a whole population of people who had never before sought mental health expertise externally that that actually have been coming to us. And we're happy to have them because we know that the sooner somebody reaches out and gets the help they need, the the better off they will be."

The demand for mental health services increased during COVID-19.  Youth mental health has been identified as a shadow pandemic to COVID-19.

In 2021, the Canadian Mental Health Association Waterloo Wellington reported a 40 per cent increase in youth accessing mental health services.

Camino Wellbeing + Mental Health offers a number of programs for families and individuals, community and youth development and family support.

Elop says merging the three organizations let them identify the overlap in programs and services they offer and identify gaps in services that don't need to exist.

Camino Wellbeing will operate out of six locations including three in Kitchener, and one each in Baden, Cambridge and Waterloo, as well as two community centres they run at Chandler-Mowat and Erb Street W.

The new name is a nod to the journey to mental well-being.

"Camino means path, and we are here, walking beside the people we serve at every step of the way along their journey."