SHOPPING — Contains affiliated content. Products featured in this Mail Best article are selected by our shopping writers. If you make a purchase using links on this page, Dailymail.co.uk will earn an affiliate commission. Click here for more information.

Amazon shoppers looking for optimum comfort when it comes to their underwear are making a bee-line for the Calvin Klein Women's Modern Cotton Bralette - now on sale on Amazon for just £12 (was £35).

Offering support without poking or pinching, the soft pull-on bra is an Amazon shopper favourite with over 6,300 five-star reviews and a number one bestseller.

With a stretchy feel and smooth look thanks to the non-padded design, the Calvin Klein Modern Cotton Bralette is perfect for comfortable, everyday wear.

Thousands of satisfied shoppers have professed their love for the wireless bra, hailing it 'really comfy' and 'supportive'.

Typically priced at £35, it's currently on sale for just £12 - that's a massive 66 per cent off.

A worthy addition to your lingerie drawer, shoppers love the Calvin Klein pull-on bra for offering support without the need for wires or padding that can irritate the skin, especially after a long day.

A fashionable twist on the classic bralette, the sporty style has won over shoppers looking for a supportive everyday bra that they won't want to whip off as soon as they get home.

The 53 per cent cotton-blend bra has been hailed 'extremely soft', while the thicker straps and under-bust band offer support without the pinching. In fact, one shopper shared how it's 'the opposite of your traditional boob cage'.

Thousands of shoppers have given their approval to the Calvin Klein Bralette, and now on sale for just £12, it's the perfect time to try it for yourself.

One impressed wearer raved: 'Gives great support and lift and they're SO comfortable. Can't believe I haven't gotten one before. I'm usually a 36DD/size 10 and I got a medium, fits perfectly. Using it for daily wear as opposed to exercise, however. Ordering 2 more!'.

Another agreed, adding: 'It's only thin material but shapes my boobs really well and is really flattering. It's so comfy and I will definitely purchase again. I want more in lots of different colours now too.'

A third penned: 'Super comfortable. I am a size 8 on top with a small bust and I ordered a medium and it was just the right size. Very comfortable and perfect for every day wear.'