COMBS, ARKANSAS: Joy-Anna Duggar reveals about her "insane hormones" as she prepares to welcome baby No. 3 three due in three weeks. The 19 Kids and Counting star, 25, said she had been "super emotional" during the third pregnancy but was still "really excited" to meet the baby boy.

The former TLC star shared the insights on her YouTube channel as she headed for her 33-week check-up. Joy-Anna and her husband, Austin Forsyth, 29, who married in 2017, already share a five-year-old son, Gideon, and a two-year-old daughter, Evelyn. The pair first announced the pregnancy in October 2022, with a joint Instagram post that read, "Baby #3 is on the way!"

Is Joy-Anna Duggar pregnant with twins? Shocked '19 Kids and Counting' fans ask 'sure there's only 1 in there?'

The soon-to-be mom again began by saying, "I'm so excited." "I cannot believe we're two weeks away from knowing the [induction] date and then from there, s*** we'll only be three weeks away from having the baby. It's getting real, it's getting close," Joy-Anna opened up on her YouTube page. "I feel like I was really prepared and wasn't worried at all, but now that it's getting so close, I'm like, "ahh," and my hormones have been insane recently."

The Arkansas native continued, "I've been super emotional about everything. I'm not really nervous about having another baby, but all of the unknowns — like the what ifs and whatever. I think if I think about it too long, then it's like, 'okay, well, what if this, what if that?' So I just have to give it to the Lord and trust that everything's gonna be okay. I have a great doctor and a great support team. I'm really excited, I cannot wait to meet this little baby boy."

In July 2019, Joy-Anna shared a heartbreaking post revealing that she had tragically suffered a miscarriage. The reality star took to Instagram, saying, "Today marks one week since we heard these words… 'so this is your baby's heart (pointing to the ultrasound screen).' I don't hear a heartbeat or see any movement.' We had gone in for our 20-week ultrasound and gender reveal. It was a baby girl."

Joy-Anna said that she and Austin had already picked out a name for the child, Annabell Elise. She continued, "Annabell means 'God has favored me,' and Elise means 'God satisfies.'" "What a precious thing to know that when our daughter opened her eyes, the first thing she saw was the face of Jesus," she concluded.