Senate Bill 523, introduced by Sen. Greg Hertz (R-Polson), would remove school levies from the calculation of the tax increment, would limit TIF provisions to 30 years and would require the local governing body, like a city council, to approve all expenditures of TIF. There are many provisions in the bill, and it would be a significant overhaul of a system that’s used by many cities and towns in Montana to incentivize development in certain areas. The bill would prohibit the adoption of a TIF provision if the incremental taxable value of all urban renewal areas that have adopted TIF provisions exceeds 7% of the total taxable value of the taxing jurisdiction. It would also revise the definition of a blighted area and would only allow an urban renewal district to get approved for an extended time period after a public hearing is held.

In Missoula, private developers are eligible for Tax Increment Financing assistance for the portions of projects that benefit the public if the project is inside a designated Urban Renewal District. The new property tax generated by the development is then directed to the Urban Renewal District to either help with future projects or pay off the TIF assistance given to the developers. The new property tax from the project does not go to other taxing jurisdictions, like the city’s general fund or the relevant school districts. Many other jurisdictions around the state, including Missoula County, use a form of TIF assistance.

Hertz said his bill would allow for 15% of voters in an Urban Renewal District to petition for an election to decide if a local government can purchase land using TIF and issue bonds to finance the deal. Essentially, Hertz believes that his bill would provide more tax revenue for schools and lessen the burden on property taxpayers.

Hess said TIF was the only tool the city had to redevelop a former polluted and abandoned lumber mill site in central Missoula into what is now the bustling, vibrant and tax revenue-providing Old Sawmill District. He also noted that a broad swath of downtown Missoula south of Broadway was once an Urban Renewal District. After the district expired, it had increased the amount of property tax revenue it sent to the city by 123%, compared to a 48% increase in the same time period for the portion of downtown north of Broadway not included in the district. That means, Hess said, that the public dollars were leveraged for a far greater return in private investment, which now means more money for the city and local schools.

He argues cities have other tools to build affordable housing. Ramos believes that instead of hotels getting nearly $7 million (as was the case with a hotel redevelopment in downtown Missoula where the developer used TIF for sidewalks, street lighting, deconstruction and state prevailing wages for contract work), cities should have tighter purse strings with TIF assistance.

Sandra Vasecka, a Ward 6 City Council member in Missoula, said that TIF has been "misused and abused" in the community. She said that if the property tax from Westside Lanes was going to the city's general fund and the local schools rather than into Urban Renewal District II, that business' property taxes alone would pay for 5% of a proposed school levy that will be on the ballot this spring.

“Rural Montana needs TIF,” she said. “We use it to help our small businesses. It stimulates Main Street businesses to develop their vacant upper floors into affordable housing for workers. Buildings in our TIF district are more than 100 years old, full of lead, asbestos and mercury. They can’t accommodate weight, they have faulty wiring, heat and ventilation and no handicap-accessible restrooms.”

She said developers need help for the cost of public improvements, like those to sidewalks, in order to make urban infill redevelopment projects pencil out. She noted that many developers would simply develop green lands and agricultural lands outside of cities rather than redevelop vacant, blighted buildings on Main Street because of the costs involved.