ASHWAUBENON - Surprisingly chilly temperatures weren't the only challenge facing people driving from State 172 to southbound Interstate 41 Monday morning.

"Ramp closed" signs and barricades were posted overnight at ramps connecting the two roads, marking the beginning of what's scheduled to be a 35-day detour for westbound traffic wanting to head south at the interchange.

With the painting of the Leo Frigo Memorial Bridge reducing the number of lanes carrying Interstate 43 traffic across the Fox River, both major highways that provide a high-speed connection from west of Green Bay to east of the city will require sharper attention and possibly lower speeds from motorists in the next several weeks.

"Put your phone in the glove compartment," said Mark Kantola, Ashwaubenon-based spokesman for the Wisconsin Department of Transportation. "Keep both eyes on the road. If you're distracted in a work zone, you can kill or injure others — or yourself."

Some drivers have questioned the need to do both projects at the same time. While Kantola acknowledges that's a concern, he said DOT is doing both projects this spring because funding is available now.

Wisconsin DOT has oversight of the project; the detour is scheduled to be in place for 35 days while crews replace more than eight miles of asphalt from Airport Drive/State 172 roundabout at Green Bay Austin Straubel International Airport, then work east 2.8 miles to Interstate 41, then another 5.3 miles to I-43.

Detours, posted along the route, will guide motorists on a roughly three-mile trip on I-41 north to Lombardi Avenue, where they'll exit and get on southbound I-41. Detours are also available at online at https://projects.511wi.gov/172resurf.

The project also will also repave segments of Riverside Drive outside the Green Bay Correctional Facility, Webster Avenue and County GV between the exit and entrance ramps to State 172, and at the Hoffman Road "Park-and-Ride" off 172. Ramps and interchanges connecting 172 and I-43 also will be resurfaced.

Significant numbers of drivers will be affected. DOT figures for 2021 show that between County GV and Bellevue Street, the average I-43 daily traffic was 54,900 vehicles. In 2018 — before the COVID-19 pandemic — 84,700 vehicles daily were crossing the Fox River on 172.

Cost for the project is $7.1 million, Kantola said.

Email Doug Schneider at DSchneid@gannett.com, call him at (920) 265-2070 and follow him on Twitter @PGDougSchneider.