Click  to schedule an FETV upfront presentation with us.

Amazon: Murder in the Red Light

HGTV: Home in a Heartbeat at 9p

Hulu: Agiers, America

Netflix: Chimp Empire; The Marked Heart

PBS: Changing Planet at 9p

ABC: Abbott Elementary at 9p

FX: Snowfall at 10p

Syfy: The Arc at 10p

A settlement was reached Tuesday afternoon in Dominion Voting Systems’ $1.6 billion defamation case against Fox News. The jury had been seated and opening statements were about to begin in the sweltering courtroom when things suddenly came to a stop for over two hours. Then Delaware Superior Court judge Eric M. Davis reappeared and told the court, “The parties have resolved their case.” According to Dominion’s lawyers, the settlement includes a $787.5 million payment from Fox. “The truth matters,” said Dominion lawyer Justin Nelson. “Lies have consequences.”

Said Fox News in a statement, “We acknowledge the court’s rulings finding certain claims about Dominion to be false. This settlement reflects Fox’s continued commitment to the highest journalistic standards. We are hopeful that our decision to resolve this dispute with Dominion amicably, instead of the acrimony of a divisive trial, allows the country to move forward from these issues.” The trial, centered on misinformation during the 2020 election, had been scheduled to begin Monday, then delayed until Tuesday.

This may not be Fox’s last court date – it still faces a lawsuit filed by another election technology company, Smartmatic. “Dominion’s litigation exposed some of the misconduct and damage caused by Fox’s disinformation campaign,” a Smartmatic spokesman said in a statement on Tuesday. “Smartmatic will expose the rest.”

Newsmax, facing its own defamation lawsuits over disproven election fraud claims, was quick to distance itself from the Fox News settlement. “Newsmax believes that the facts at issue in Dominion’s case against it are materially different from those that may have driven Fox to settle, and no conclusion about Newsmax should be drawn from that settlement,” said the company in a statement. “Newsmax stands by its coverage and analysis of the 2020 election and will continue to vigorously defend against the claim.”

NewsNation is expanding to 24 hours, Monday through Friday, beginning Monday, April 24. As part of the move the network will launch new live, four-hour weekday programming block, “NewsNation Now,” airing from 1-5p. “I couldn’t be more proud of what we have accomplished in just a little over two and a half years,” said Sean Compton, President of Nexstar Networks. “NewsNation’s growth has been fueled by exceptional talent with stellar reputations for high-quality journalism, and by viewers hungry for unbiased news reporting.”

Netflix will introduce “paid sharing” in the US in the coming weeks, part of the streamer’s crackdown on the loaning of login credentials. The US debut, during the second quarter (April through June), is part of a “broad rollout” across the world, the company explained in its quarterly letter to shareholders.

How do you celebrate turning 100? If you’re Warner Bros. Studios, you enlist WBD’s Diversity, Equity and Inclusion team to create a short film series that reimagines the Studio’s films through a diverse and inclusive lens. Six filmmakers have been selected to develop and shoot 20-minute short film adaptions of the classic Warner Bros. titles A Star is Born, The Adventures of Robin Hood, Calamity Jane, Jack and the Beanstalk, The Prince and the Pauper and Rebel Without a Cause, with representative casting, storytelling and narrative. “We’re absolutely thrilled to work with WBD’s Diversity, Equity and Inclusion team to expand opportunities for a broader range of talent to realize their dreams at Warner Bros.,” said Mike De Luca and Pam Abdy, Co-Chairs & CEOs, Warner Bros. Pictures Group. “We can’t think of a better way to celebrate this Studio’s 100-year legacy than investing in the next generation of great storytellers.”

NBCUniversal Telemundo Enterprises celebrated five years of growth and expansion of its multimedia career mentorship and student development program, Telemundo Academy, on Tuesday. To mark the occasion, the company announced a new partnership with the Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities, an international organization representing more than 500 colleges and universities in the US, Puerto Rico, Latin America and Spain committed to Hispanic higher education success.

Showcase your data-driven campaigns and innovative approaches by entering the Measure Up! Awards. Join other top professionals in the industry and celebrate outstanding results achieved through measurement and analytics.

ENTER THE MEASURE UP! AWARDS NOW!

“Love Island” is getting a spinoff. Peacock has ordered “Love Island Games,” set to premiere in Fall 2023. The series will bring together cross-franchise fan-favorite contestants from the US, UK, Australia and more for a second shot at love.

ABC renewed “Will Trent” for a sophomore season. The series has averaged 6.1 million total viewers and a 0.6 demo rating (with Live+7 playback).

David Spade is set to host “Snake Oil,” a new game show ordered by Fox, with Will Arnett attached as executive producer. The original format will feature entrepreneurs pitching unique new products – some of which are actual business ventures, and others that are fake. Contestants will have to determine which are legit and which are shams with the help of guest celebrity advisors.

Let bygones be bygones? Charlie Sheen and “Two and a Half Men” creator Chuck Lorre – who famously fired him from the show – are reuniting on Max comedy “How to Be a Bookie,” according to Deadline. Sheen is set to recur on the series headlined by Sebastian Maniscalco, which hails from Warner Bros. Television.

Ewan McGregor will star in “Lodi,” a drama series ordered by Amazon Prime Video, reports Variety. Inspired by a true story told in an Alta online article by Andrew Dubbins, the show follows Lou (McGregor), who goes from car salesman to FBI informant infiltrating the mafia when a key member of the organized crime offers to buy his Cadillac dealership.

Bret Easton Ellis’ novel The Shards is in series development at HBO. Ellis will write the project, as well as executive produce it with Nick Hall and Brain Young. Set in 1981, the show tracks a group of privileged Los Angeles high school friend as a serial killer strikes across the city. A podcast dropped on the novel last year.

Paramount Television Studios is working on a “Galaxy Quest” TV series based on the 1999 DreamWorks sci-fi comedy film. The project is in the early stages of development and is being executive produced by the movie’s producer mark Johnson via his Gran Via Productions.

Netflix has renewed “Perfect Match” for a second season. Nick Lachey will return as host of the unscripted dating series.

Sony Pictures Television and Don Cheadle’s The Radicle Act are developing Lama Giles YA novel, The Getaway. It contemplates what would happen if the world fell into chaos, and you and your family were stuck working in the one of the world’s most famous resorts with the world’s richest and most post powerful guest.

AMC Networks’ Head of Programming, Dan McDermott, announced the development of a potential third series in the expanding Anne Rice Immortal Universe. Oscar-nominated John Lee Hancock (“The Blind Side”) is attached as showrunner and writer. The series is set in the world of the Talamasca, a secret organization featured in a number of Rice’s novels that is devoted to studying the supernatural world and keeping mortals safe from its darkest elements.

Also on the docket are two new WE tv series, including an expansion of the “Growing Up Hip Hop” franchise with “Toya & Reginae.” The program features the ex-wife and daughter of hip hop legend Lil Wayne, Toya Johnson-Rushing and Reginae Carter, both of whom appeared on “Growing Up Hip Hop.” In addition, “Bev Is Boss” will be based on the life of Deb Antney. The music managing mogul rose to fame for breaking the careers of Gucci Mane, French Montana and Nicki Minaj.

Apple TV+ presents “Big Beasts” on Friday, April 21. Filmed over four and half years, the nature documentary series takes audiences on a journey around the globe.

Amazon Freevee courtroom series, “Tribunal Justice,” debuts with three new episodes on Friday, June 9 in the US, UK, Germany and Austria. Created by “Judge Judy” star Judy Sheindlin, the series features judges Patricia DiMango, Tanya Acker and Adam Levy with the return of bailiff Petri Hawkins Byrd.

Netflix limited series “All The Light We Cannot See” bows Thursday, November 2, following the story of Marie-Laure (Aria Mia Loberti), a blind French girl and her father, Daniel LeBlanc (Mark Ruffalo), who flee German-occupied Paris with a legendary diamond to keep it from falling into the hands of the Nazis.

New original stories about entertainment icons Sammy Davis Jr., Sean Connery and Doris Day will be delved into in the return of “Autopsy: The Last Hours of…”. The trio battled health scares early in their careers, and the series explores their medical histories with forensic details. First up: “Autopsy: The Last Hours of… Sammy Davis Jr.” on Sunday May 7 at 9p on Reelz.

Season 2 of Amazon Studios’ “Will Love” premieres Friday, June 2 on Prime Video. The romantic dramedy centers on siblings Lily and Jorge Diaz as they navigate big life changes and rely on their equally big family to get through them.

Paramount+’s “Wynonna Judd: Between Hell and Hallelujah” debuts Wednesday, April 26. The documentary follows the singer as she navigates the next phase of her life and career following her mother, Naomi Judd’s passing.

Kenn Viselman, the producer behind “Teletubbies” and “Thomas the Tank Engine” is launching itsybitsyWOW.com, an online entertainment emporium for families. It officially premieres on April 21 with The World Premiere of a Live MeteorHeroes Earth Day Event.

The most-watching streaming shows in March were “Outer Banks” and “The Mandalorian,” according to Nielsen’s monthly report, The Gauge. It noted that viewers watched 4.6B minutes of “Outer Banks,” following its Season 3 release in February, leading any other streaming program. Meanwhile, “The Mandalorian” drew over 3.6B viewing minutes.

A new Horowitz Survey reports that Black households over index for using free OTT services compared to the total market, pointing to opportunities for culturally relevant content. It revealed that 4 in 5 (80%) used the services within the past month compared to 69% of consumers overall. In fact, usage of free OTT services among Black audiences has grown from 13% in 2019. The usage of free ad-supported streaming TV services like Tubi, Peacock and Pluto TV played a major role with nearly half (45%) of Black TV content viewers reporting using at least one FAST service in the past month compared to one-third (35%) of total market consumers.

Netflix is shutting down its DVD-by-mail business. “After an incredible 25-year run, we’ve decided to wind down DVD.com later this year,” co-CEO Ted Sarandos wrote in a blog post on the company’s site. “Our goal has always been to provide the best service to our members, but as the business continues to shrink, that’s going to become increasingly difficult. So we want to go out on a high, and will be shipping our final discs on September 29, 2023.”

Amazon Prime has launched Dialogue Boost. The new feature allows users to increase volume of dialogue in select original series and films. The option, originally conceived to support customers who are hard of hearing, will quiet down background music and other effects.

FloSports struck a multi-year partnership with Wrestling Canada Lutte to be the official streaming partner of its national events. The agreement runs through 2027 and will see FloSports broadcast both Canadian Wrestling Championships, Canadian U23 Wrestling Championships & World Team Trials, and the Canadian Team Trials in 2023 and 2027. In addition to live streaming FloSports will also produce exclusive content at national events with Canadian wrestlers, giving fans more access to athletes.

The international revival of “Jeopardy!” forges on. “Jeopardy! Australia” will be helmed by Stephen Fry for Channel 9. Fry is also set to host ITV’s upcoming British version on the game show. The Australian version will be filmed in Manchester and feature Aussie contestants. Sony-backed Whisper North is producing.

Johnny Depp and Amber Heard’s legal bust-up will be explored in the three-part documentary “Depp V Heard” (wt) on British broadcaster Channel 4. It’s being billed as the first “in-depth” examination of the 2022 defamation trial.

Channel 4 has also commissioned “Evacuation,” a documentary series from Wonderhood Studios charting the August 2021 evacuation of Kabul. The show tells the inside story of the British military campaign to evacuate Kabul airport via raw testimony from the servicemen and women who found themselves at the epicenter of an unfolding crisis.

Looking for a career in media?

Sign up for the Cynopsis Virtual Jobs Event on April 26th and connect with hiring pros from A+E Networks, TV One, Scripps, and Nexstar Media Group. Don’t miss out on this exclusive opportunity to learn about new job openings and connect with potential employers!

FOX News Channel was the top network in basic cable across total day and primetime with viewers, marking its third straight week leading primetime and its 15th consecutive week as number one in total day. “Tucker Carlson Tonight” was the most-watched cable news program of the week with 3,389,000 total viewers, 419,000 with A25-54 and 295,00 with A18-49.

Basic Cable Top 10 for the week of April 10

Network, P2+ AA (000s)

Primetime

Fox News 2123

TNT 1580

MSNBC 1289

ESPN 1173

HGTV 963

INSP 728

History 717

Hallmark Channel 696

USA 570

Food 564

TLC 564

Total Day

Fox News 1330

MSNBC 798

ESPN 606

TNT 550

CNN 449

HGTV 449

Hallmark Channel 416

INSP 397

Food 351

TVLand 346

Source: Nielsen

Show, P2+ 000s, (A18-49)

ABC: American Idol 4.36 (0.53), The Good Doctor 3.48 (0.30)

CBS: The Neighborhood 4.84 (0.42), Bob Hearts Abishola 4.49 (0.34), NCIS 4.14 (0.21), NCIS: Hawaii 3.71 (0.21)

CW: All American 0.44 (0.11), The Flash 0.22 (.06)

FOX: 911 4.46 (0.51), Fantasy Island 1.69 (0.21)

ION: FBI .936 (0.1), FBI .907 (0.1), FBI .838 (0.1)

NBC: The Voice 5.36 (0.45), That’s My Jam 3.11 (0.37)

Telemundo: La Casa de los Famosos 1.31 (0.34), El Senor de los Cielos 1.05 (0.35), Juego de Mentiras 0.65 (0/19)

Univision: Perdona Nuestros Pecados 1.38 (0.37), El Amor Invencible 1.56 (0.45), Cabo 1.47 (0.42)

Source: Nielsen, live + same day time period averages

Harry Gamsu is heading back to Warner Bros. Discovery. Gamsu is joining the international formats team as Vice President, Format, Development and Sales. Gamsu had been Vice President, Format Acquisitions at Fremantle.

Omnicom’s cultural strategy consultancy, sparks & honey, announced some promotions. Mark Newhouse was upped from Chief Operating Officer to President and Chief Operating Officer, and Davianne Harris was elevated to Managing Partner and Chief Client Officer. Supporting Harris will be Hannah Hickman, the Head of the Youth Culture Practice, and Robb Henzi, Head of Policy and Philanthropy Practice, who were promoted to Partner. sparks & honey’s Founder and CEO, Terry Young, is shifting from day-to-day operations to focus on new innovation models, executive advisory services, strategic partnerships, thought leadership, and what’s next for the consultancy.

Answer to Our Last Trivia Question

Shirley Jones reprised her “The Partridge Family” (1970-1974) role of Shirley Partridge in a cameo on which sitcom? “That ‘70s Show”. Kudos to: Gerry Bixenspan-TV Marketing, Inc./NYC; Cat Bandura/Pittsburgh, PA; JoAnn DiNapoli-DeSales Media Group/Brooklyn, NY; Phyllis McQuillan-MSG Networks/NYC; Susan Nessanbaum-Goldberg-M and S Entertainment/Los Angeles, CA; Maggie Takei-Direct Donor TV/ Paducah, KY; Tom Moore-Kalt Productions/Los Angeles, CA; David Westberg-SAG AFTRA Credit Union/Burbank, CA..

“The Simpsons” originally appeared as a short on what TV show? (Email [email protected] with your answer and be sure to include your name, company, city and time zone. Unofficial rules: a limit of four per time zone.)

Cynopsis

Check out more jobs in Cynopsis Classifieds »

SR. DIRECTOR, DIGITAL PLATFORMS AND PARTNERSHIPS

TV ONE

SILVERSIDE MD, NYC, Hybrid Remote

Develop, cultivate, and socialize vision, mission, and strategy for Digital Business, Programming Visibility, Content Creation and Content Partnerships & Data Governance. Lead and facilitate cross-functional and cross-company project teams. 12 yrs in the media & emerging platform landscape with building digital platforms and vMVPD growth strategy. Full info HERE

VP OF BROADCAST ENGINEERING >>

NEWSMAX MEDIA, INC./NYC, NEW YORK: Oversee the planning, management, installation & maintenance of the networks technical infrastructure: studios, transmitters, digital production platforms & automated systems. Ability to deploy in the field to coordinate special events. 8+ yrs of broadcast troubleshooting in a television network environment, preferably in a network News environment. Full info HERE

MEDIA RESEARCH MANAGER

CIRCLE MEDIA

NASHVILLE, TN

Evaluate programming for our linear and FAST channel schedules to provide insights for content strategy and audience growth. Analyze & interpret media research for programming, ad sales, marketing, and affiliate sales. Research, & preferably Nielsen background is a strongly preferred. Media Research with linear, or similar platforms, is required. Full info HERE

SCHEDULING ASSISTANT- PROGRAMMING DEPARTMENT

CIRCLE MEDIA

NASHVILLE, TN

Partner with the Programming Director to perform scheduling tasks for our Linear and FAST Channels. This includes data entry and distributing weekly schedules. Strong attention to detail and love for data entry/meta data is a plus. This role is ideal for someone looking to break into the media world. Full info HERE

TRAFFIC ASSISTANT- AD SALES METADATA ENTRY

CIRCLE MEDIA

NASHVILLE, TN

Performing a variety of administrative tasks to provide support to the Traffic Department. The majority of this role will focus on metadata entry and must have strong attention to detail. This role will also assist team members with projects and serve as an idea source during team meetings. Full info HERE

VIDEO EDITOR- MOTION GRAPHICS

CIRCLE MEDIA

NASHVILLE, TN

Responsible for editing a variety of content, including but not limited to: network promos, show promos, sponsor ads and graphics. The ideal candidate is highly skilled in the Adobe editing suite and is highly motivated and organized. After Effects/Motion graphics skills are needed and coding is preferred, but not required. Full info HERE

VICE PRESIDENT, COMPENSATION

A+E NETWORKS

NYC, Hybrid, Remote

Review current compensation programs to identify changes needed for a true best in class compensation approach. Develop simple tools that can be used by recruiters, candidates, & employees to effectively communicate all aspects of a compensation package. Minimum of 10 + years of experience in compensation. Full info HERE

DIRECTOR OF SALES

NEXSTAR

COLCHESTER, VT

Leader of the Sales Team. Drive new business & digital sales development. Manage inventory, rates, political sales processes & revenue forecasting. Develop and execute integrated marketing packages and projects to increase stations’ revenue. Resolve customer complaints regarding sales and service. Min. 5 years’ exp. in Television Sales Management. Full info HERE

NETWORK ACCOUNT EXECUTIVE

WEIGEL BROADCASTING CO.

CHICAGO

Building and managing relationships with existing and potential new clients and agencies through routine communication; actively grow industry relationships to gain marketplace intelligence. Generate revenue for the networks & meet monthly goals through effective outside sales techniques. 5 yrs of National Network selling and sales development exp. Full info HERE

ACCOUNT EXECUTIVE

FETV

NYC

Represent FETV and FMC to media community via ongoing communications & relationship building. Maintain & develop strong working relationships w/both agencies & internal departments in support of sales efforts. Work w/sales management and pricing & planning to achieve quarterly revenue goals. 5+ yrs media sales exp. preferably in cable TV. Full info HERE

AD SALES PLANNER >>

SINCLAIR BROADCASTING GROUP/NYC, Hybrid: Responsible for creating, analyzing & communicating sales proposals to the Sales team for presentation to advertising agencies and/or clients. Collaborate w/all media platforms & departments to create proposals, execute campaigns, manage stewardship & pacing of linear & digital deals. Point of contact post sale & provide excellent client services. Full info HERE

DIRECTOR OF SALES >>

NEXSTAR MEDIA GROUP WKRN -TV (ABC)/NASHVILLE TN: Being a Leader of the Sales Team and owning the position. Driving new business development. Managing inventory, rates, political sales processes & revenue forecasting. Developing and executing sales packages and projects to increase stations’ revenue. Performing other duties as assigned. Minimum five yrs experience in Television Station Management. Full info HERE

MANAGER, RIGHTS CLEARANCES, STANDARDS & PRACTICES

TV ONE

SILVER SPRING MD, Hybrid, Remote

Pre-screen broadcast programs, commercials and other content to ensure compliance with TV One’s current Content Standards, Federal Trade Commission/Federal Communications Commission regulations. Assign parental ratings to all TV One programming based on content review. 3+ yrs exp. in a rights clearances and standards and practices is preferred. Full info HERE

DIRECTOR OF DEVELOPMENT, UNSCRIPTED >>

LIGHTHEARTED ENTERTAINMENT/NORTH HOLLYWOOD, Hybrid, Remote: Responsible for overseeing the development of unscripted programming from concept to delivery. The ideal candidate will have a proven track record of identifying, developing, pitching and producing successful unscripted projects across a range of genres and networks. 5+ years of experience in unscripted television development. Full info HERE

DIRECTOR, AD SALES RESEARCH

E.W. SCRIPPS

NYC

Collect, analyze, & interpret audience data (Nielsen, MRI, iSpot, etc.) for recurring sales reports & ad hoc requests. Synthesize large data sets from multiple sources into compelling & strategic insights for our Linear, CTV, and Distribution sales teams to drive revenue. 10+ yrs of exp. in a TV research role, including managing & leading staff. Full info HERE

RESEARCH ANALYST >>

REELZ, NYC: 2+ years exp generating & analyzing competitive viewing & advertiser information. Support sales, programming, marketing and finance. Working knowledge of NPower, StarMedia, iSpot TV and MRI. Expertise in Excel & PowerPoint. Full info HERE

DIRECTOR OF AD SALES – PLATFORM PARTNER

BBC GLOBAL DIGITAL NEWS & STREAMING

NYC, Hybrid

BBC Global Digital News & Streaming is looking for a highly skilled, NY based, Director of Ad Sales – Platform Partner. The purpose of the role is to launch BBC Studios Youtube and social advertising proposition across the Americas, deliver advertising revenues across the BBC Studios global portfolio and build a best in market Partner Sales team. Full info HERE

LOG EDITOR, COMMERCIAL OPERATIONS

TV ONE

CHICAGO, IL, NEW YORK, NY – Hybrid, Remote

Prepare and update the daily assigned program log for TV One or Cleo TV. Manage the placement of key clients by using detailed instructions to ensure correct placement as ordered by the Advertising Sales team. Bachelor’s degree in a related field or 2+ years of experience in Broadcast Cable Log Operations. Full info HERE

SR. PROMO EDITOR

TV ONE

SILVER SPRING, Hybrid, Remote

Video editing, with primary responsibility in marketing and digital media. Work with creative marketing teams to complete their production assignments. Contribute creative ideas that will help elevate the brand. Organize, Manage and Archive Avid Media Projects and files. 10 years of video editing exp. including 5 years of promo editing exp. Full info HERE

ACCOUNT EXECUTIVE – AD SALES >>

GREAT AMERICAN MEDIA/CHICAGO Remote: Strategically sells linear & digital properties to drive Ad Sales revenue. Works with agencies & clients to develop unique advertising solutions for their brands. Requires 5-10 years of sales experience with established agency & client relationships. Seeking a motivated, self-starter with strong negotiation, communication & presentation skills. Full info HERE

SALES PLANNER – AD SALES >>

GREAT AMERICAN MEDIA/NEW YORK, Hybrid/Remote: Works with Account Executives to service clients daily. Builds sales plans, maintains media schedules & handles client requests such as stewardship, liability, and traffic concerns. Seeking a motivated, self-starter with strong communication, problem-solving & time management skills. Must have 1+ year of planning experience. Full info HERE

MOTION GRAPHIC DESIGNER >>

LONG STORY SHORT MEDIA/WASHINGTON, DC: Bring creative concepts to life through design and animation. Motion Designer will work in a team environment to share fresh design perspectives and create engaging high-quality content for a variety of subjects and media. Full Info HERE

SALES MANAGER >>

NEXSTAR MEDIA GROUP/INDIANAPOLIS: Provides leadership for the broadcast/digital sales teams. Makes decisions regarding hiring, evaluation, promotion and operation of account executives and sales assistants. Develops and executes sales strategies that exceeds revenue targets in local, new business and digital revenue. Min 5 yrs of media sales exp; management exp. preferred. Full info HERE

SENIOR MANAGER, ACQUISITION AND OUTREACH >>

TELEVISION ACADEMY/LOS ANGELES, Hybrid: Develop, build, and execute member acquisition plans (monthly, quarterly, and annual) with measurable targets, optimize program performance and deliver strategic plans to achieve/exceed specific campaign KPIs. Identify and implement A/B tests & tactics, innovating & continually seeking to drive and improve. Min 4 yrs’ exp. in an acquisition role. Full info HERE

VICE PRESIDENT, MARKETING & ON-AIR PROMOTION >>

REELZ/ALBUQUERQUE, NM: Develop strategic approaches and tactical planning for on-air promotion, guiding the creative process from creation through post-production, and managing the execution of consumer marketing programs for on-air promotion and off-air advertising. Responsible for full on-air presentation and format management. Min of 8-10 yrs exp. Full info HERE

ACCOUNT EXECUTIVE – AD SALES >>

GREAT AMERICAN MEDIA/NYC, Hybrid, Remote: Strategically sells linear & digital properties to drive Ad Sales revenue. Works with agencies & clients to develop unique advertising solutions for their brands. Requires 3+ years of sales experience with established agency & client relationships. Seeking a motivated, self-starter with strong negotiation, communication & presentation skills. Full info HERE

SALES ASSISTANT – AD SALES >>

GREAT AMERICAN MEDIA/NYC, Hybrid, Remote: Provides workflow support to ensure effective campaign delivery for advertisers. Verifies order and schedule accuracy and entry. Monitors accounts while booking and maintaining inventory. Works closely with Account Executives and Sales Planners. Seeking a motivated, self-starter with strong communication, analytical & problem-solving skills. Full info HERE

MANAGER, COMMERCIAL OPERATIONS

TV ONE

CHICAGO, NYC, Hybrid, Remote

Supervise & train copy coordinators & log editors for accuracy & attention to detail of building a commercial log & reading agency instructions. Monitor employee performance & output; provide back-up for all desks including log editing, added value insertion & continued communication with marketing for all custom creations. Min of 3 yrs of exp. Full info HERE

TRAFFIC MANAGER >>

WHYY/Hybrid, PHILADELPHIA: Create monthly programming grids for 12.1 and 12.3. Update programming grids when schedule changes are made. Prepare daily logs & submit to Centralcast Joint Master Control. Work w/WHYY Traffic Specialist who creates programming grids for 12.2 and logs for 12.2 and 12.3. 3-5 yrs of management exp. & working with data or traffic systems. Full info HERE

IN-HOUSE COUNSEL

NORTHSOUTH PRODUCTIONS

Remote, must be licensed in NY or CA

Negotiating and drafting development deals, shopping agreements, amendments, talent deals, above-the-line contracts, PSAs, production release templates, trade-out agreements, specialty releases and other necessary documents. Shaping corporate and production legal policies. 5-10 yrs of entertainment legal exp. working with a law firm or production. Full info HERE

ABC: The Conners, The Goldbergs, Abbott Elementary [f], A Million Little Things

CBS: Survivor, FBI

CW: The Flash, Riverdale

FOX: The Masked Singer, Farmer Wants a Wife

NBC: Chicago Med, Chicago Fire, Chicago P.D.

PBS: Nature, Changing Planet [p]

Telemundo: La Casa de los Famosos, El Senor de los Cielos, Futbol Masulino Amistosos Internacioales

Univision: Perdona Nuestros Pecados, El Amor Invencible, Cabo