SBS’s “Taxi Driver 2” and JTBC’s “Divorce Attorney Shin” ruled this week’s rankings of the most buzzworthy dramas and actors!

For the fifth week in a row, “Taxi Driver 2” continued its reign at No. 1 on Good Data Corporation’s weekly list of the dramas that generated the most buzz. The company determines each week’s rankings by collecting data from news articles, blog posts, online communities, videos, and social media about dramas that are either currently airing or set to air soon.

Not only did “Taxi Driver 2” continue to top the list of most buzzworthy dramas, but it also held onto the top two spots on the list of most buzzworthy drama cast members, where its stars Lee Je Hoon and Shin Jae Ha remained No. 1 and No. 2 respectively.

Meanwhile, “Divorce Attorney Shin” rose to No. 2 on the drama list in its final week on air, and star Cho Seung Woo also climbed to No. 3 in the actor rankings.

MBC’s new drama “Joseon Attorney” took No. 3 on this week’s drama list, while leads WJSN’s Bona and Woo Do Hwan ranked No. 9 and No. 10 respectively on the actor list.

KBS 2TV’s “The Real Has Come!” held steady at No. 4 on the drama list, and star Ahn Jae Hyun rose to No. 7 on the actor list.

KBS 2TV’s “Oasis” also maintained its position at No. 5 on the drama list, with lead Jang Dong Yoon climbing to No. 4 on the actor list.

KBS 2TV’s “Woman in a Veil” swept the No. 6 spot on both lists, with Shin Go Eun rocketing up the actor rankings this week.

tvN’s “Pandora: Beneath the Paradise” ranked No. 7 on the drama list, while leading lady Lee Ji Ah came in at No. 8 on the actor list.

Finally, tvN’s “Our Blooming Youth” held onto its spot at No. 8 on the drama list, and star Park Hyung Sik rose to No. 5 on this week’s actor list.

The top 10 dramas that generated the most buzz in the first week of April are as follows:

Meanwhile, the top 10 drama actors that generated the most buzz this week are as follows:

Binge-watch all of “Taxi Driver 2” with subtitles here…

You can also start watching “Joseon Attorney” here…