Soak up what the Padres could and rightfully should be doing, offensively. Nagging, persistent trouble in all directions. Baton-passers who send pitch counts soaring. Patient and productive. Deep and damaging and clutch.

It’s one game — just nine innings in the briskness of April — but a 10-3 win Saturday at Petco Park against the solidly assembled Brewers provided a lens into what can be possible with a money-soaked bunch that, so far, has been more payroll than punch.

Bottle it, Padres, if you can.

“That should be typical, you know,” Padres designated hitter Nelson Cruz said. “That’s what we are looking to do every day. We understand it’s not going to happen every day, but we’re definitely capable of doing stuff like that on a daily basis.”

The Padres’ offense had been a head-scratcher to this point, languishing at No. 27 in baseball for batting average with runners in scoring position. They’d struck out 50 times since the start of the recent Mets series, the most of any National League team in that span.

The 11 runs they scratched across in those five games tied the White Sox and punchless Nationals for the fewest in the game. They’d been a woeful 1-6 in games when an opponent scored first, as the Brewers did with a 27-pitch, two-run first inning Saturday.

This offense was not just inexplicably lost, it had gone to the airport with preseason-expectation tickets to Tahiti and ended up in Dayton, Ohio. Coming into the game, the Padres were 20th in on-base percentage, 18th in on-base-plus-slugging numbers and had grounded into more double plays than all but one team in baseball.

Then came Saturday, when seven of the 10 runs were driven home with two outs, including the first five in the first, second and fifth innings.

“Well, it hasn’t been there very often for us,” manager Bob Melvin said of the two-out production. “… It hasn’t been there consistently. We feel like we have the ability to do that. So, you know, hopefully this is start of a trend.”

Struggling infielder Jake Cronenworth, who was hitting .196 this season with four extra-base hits, drove in runs in four of his five trips to the plate on a single, two homers and an RBI walk. The small-sample-size bump pushed him to .240 and sent his on-base-plus-slugging total rocketing nearly 200 points, to .841.

The 29-year-old with a fresh $80 million contract jumped on the first pitch he saw in the first to help answer the Brewers, who had scored two to lead off the game. A seven-pitch walk from Juan Soto, an eight-pitch infield single from Xander Bogaerts and a seven-pitch RBI single from Nelson Cruz set the table.

“I think it shows how deep the lineup is,” Cronenworth said. “That first inning we scored two two-out runs and it all started with a walk. With the lineup that we have, the way you look at it, you go down the order, it seems like no matter what point we are in the game, no matter what inning it is, it seems like just that one little thing can just spark this lineup.”

Cruz alone delivered a clinic on diversified scoring production. He singled in that run with two gone in the first, drove in Juan Soto with a sacrifice fly in the seventh and walked in a third in the eighth.

This team, the one that showed up against the Brewers, felt like the one trumpeted in the spring: You don’t know how the runs are coming, but they’re coming all the same.

“You go through stretches where the offense feels like that,” said Cruz, when asked if the offense had been pressing thus far. “The good thing and the positive, we got it done today. … It shows what we can do as a team.”

The showing part has been the thing. Against the Brewers, the Padres started three innings with two outs. In all three, they breathed life into the slow starts to dig out runs.

It allowed them to stop a three-game losing streak with an offensive flourish.

“We’ve got to sustain it, right?” Melvin said. “We’ve got to do it more.”

The fact that the outburst came against Brewers starter Freddy Peralta added a bit of early season validation. Peralta entered the game 2-0 with a 0.75 ERA and one earned run allowed.

The 10 runs were the most allowed by the NL Central leaders this season.

“If you can have a game where it seems like everybody is having a quality at-bat and everybody feels good, it’s one of those things where hopefully it rolls on for a little bit,” Cronenworth said.

One game against the Brewers? Sure. It offered a glimpse, though, of the blueprint that could make this team as scary as everyone has predicted it will be with big bat Fernando Tatis Jr. five games away from returning from a PED suspension.

“I think that’s the key, is do it consistently,” Cronenworth said. “We did a really good job with it today. But we’ve got to come out tomorrow and the following days and do it the same and expect that out of everybody.”

It’s been expected this season, without a doubt. That’s been the issue.

As always, doing it is the thing.