There is a new craze in India for huge statues, the higher and broader the better.

Tomorrow, a colossal sculpture of the social reformer B. R. Ambedkar — measuring 38m (125ft) high or 53m (174ft) including its base — will be unveiled in the city of Hyderabad. Following the unveiling, a helicopter will fly over it, showering it with flowers.

Another statue, also of Mr Ambedkar, is under construction in Mumbai. At 137m (450ft), it will be the third tallest in the world: the tallest is the Statue of Unity in Gujarat, which rises to 240m (790ft) including its sizeable pedestal.

They all make our own Nelson's Column look like Polly Pocket's pencil. Though his column is 52m (169ft) high, Nelson's statue itself is a weeny 5.5m (18ft), or barely three times life-size.

In real life, Horatio Nelson was 5ft 6in, the same height as Rishi Sunak. So the huge column beneath his feet is absurdly disproportionate, as though he were trying to give himself a boost by climbing into a pair of platform shoes 50m high.

Humanity has always engaged in this tussle between the mammoth and the miniature. Fashion ebbs and flows. At the moment, we prefer our telephones small and our televisions big, but these things are random; ten years from now we may well be showing off our huge telephones and tiny televisions.

Books and films are also victim to these random shifts in size: one moment slim volumes are all the rage and the next there is little call for anything under 600 pages in length.

Nowadays, we are no longer satisfied with films that last an hour or two. Streaming giants Netflix or Amazon like to spin even the most modest tale into an eight, ten or 12-part series.

The briefest six-word narrative — for instance, 'The cat sat on the mat' — is destined to end up as a never-ending, true-crime series, complete with former colleagues of the cat giving lengthy interviews in silhouette and plenty of re-enactments, with sirens wailing over nervy drumbeats and forensic teams in hazmat suits combing the mat for bloodstains.

Of course, there are those who can never make up their minds about size, switching from big and small and back again, and never stopping at the happy medium. Katie Price, the model and reality TV star, is a case in point. Earlier this year, she travelled to Belgium to undergo what experts in the field reckon was her 16th breast augmentation.

Historians date her first procedure to 1998, when she boosted her breasts from 32B to 32C. But within years, she'd had them enlarged so they were each roughly the size of a football, possibly in the hope of attracting a real-life footballer.

More enlargements followed, but then she went into reverse gear and had surgery to make them smaller. 'This time, I am going for a reduction', she announced. 'I want my boobs to be smaller and more pert.'

Her latest operation continues her moves in the other direction with an HH cup size. Those close to her say she is now bidding to have 'the biggest in Britain'. She has also had her lips made bigger. She judges the operation a success. 'Absolutely loving my lips,' she posted on social media.

Each to their own, but personally I think that everything has a natural size. I find 7ft Mickey Mouses at Disneyland and 4ft soft toys at funfairs all a bit scary. The moment they measure over 3ft tall, teddy bears start to resemble nightclub bouncers.

In the visual arts, huge is all the rage. A number of highly acclaimed modern artists have pursued successful careers following what one might call the Price Template, enlarging everyday items until they are three or four times their original size.

Claes Oldenburg, who died last year, pioneered exhibiting gigantic replicas of household objects — a paintbrush, a needle and thread, a pair of binoculars, a clothes peg. Louise Bourgeois constructed a spider 30ft wide and called it Maman.

Nowadays, any artist wondering what to do next can expand something from S to XXXL and send it straight to Tate Modern.

But is bigger always better? Will the citizens of Hyderabad and Mumbai regret the vast shadows cast by their new statues?

Will Netflix viewers start to yearn for the days when all dramas were done and dusted in 90 minutes?

And will Katie Price be left wondering if this time she has gone too far?