After a trial run in the world of interior design in 2022 with a collaboration with the Danish bedding brand Tekla, Jacquemus is taking the leap and branching out into this new sector. The Parisian house unveils its first collection called "Objets" and pays tribute to the famous Italian architect Gae Aulenti by re-issuing some of her creations from the 1960s.

"Design, architecture and art have always been sources of inspiration for ," the brand recalls. Five years ago, for example, the designer created the ready-to-wear collection La Collectionneuse for Autumn-Winter 2019-2020, which was inspired by multiple artistic references, ranging from Pierre Jeanneret's modernist chairs, to the architecture of Gae Aulenti, known, among other things, for her work on museum interiors such as the Musée d' or the Grassi Palace in Venice, which houses the Pinault collection.

"I've always dreamed of developing a furniture line... I'm a big fan of designer chairs and I've been collecting vintage Gae Aulenti chairs for many years, ever since I saw them in Jacques Deray's film La Piscine," the designer explained in a statement. Drawing on the expertise of the Italian luxury furniture manufacturer Exteta, located north of Milan in Brianza, Simon Porte Jacquemus is revisiting the "Locus Solus" models made in 1964 by Gae Aulenti, which he discovered in the film.

The designer is re-editing a chair, an armchair and a sunbed, to which he has added his own touch "with a yellow striped fabric inspired by beach mattresses and parasols in the 1980s." This limited edition capsule collection is available on the brand's website and in the  boutique at prices of 1,188 euros for the chair, 3,456 euros for the armchair and 5,940 euros for the chaise longue.

"Objets" is also an extension of the Raphia ready-to-wear collection, which will be unveiled in December 2022, with some fifteen accessories and design objects, such as trays, plates, vases, bowls, key rings, baskets, etc. Most of them are leather and made in Italy, reminiscent of the design accessories of luxury houses. Added to this list are golden brass hairpins and leather clothes pegs, in the typical playful spirit of Jacquemus. Prices range from 150 to 400 euros and more.

This collection is completed by a series of rare vintage art books or catalogues that Simon Porte Jacquemus has found among his favourite artists, such as  Picasso, David Hockney and Jean Dubuffet, to name just a few, as well as some original prints by photographer Lucien Clergue. An unusual offering that is both eclectic and cutting-edge, in keeping with the brand's style.