If I had a pound for every time that I’ve read that the UK stock market is cheap, I’d probably have made significantly more money than I have done in backing those ‘bargain’ UK shares over the past decade or so.

A glance at the long-term chart of the headline UK index, the FTSE 100, tells you all you need to know about why the UK stock market is considered by some to be perennially unlucky.

Every time it has gone on a decent run since the turn of the millennium, something has arrived to knock it off its perch.

The FTSE 100 chart over the last two decades is a picture of slow rises followed by sudden drops and then a slow rise back to a roughly similar level.

In contrast, the US stock market, as measured by the S&P 500, looks more like the steady upwards line of growth that investors are usually provided with as they are exhorted to think long term.

Look back before the dot com boom peak at the end of 1999 and you will see the FTSE 100 chart much more closely resembles that kind of long-term growth picture. Hence investors' grumbling about the UK stock market's lacklustre performance since the bell chimed on the start of the 2000s.

At 7,818 on 12 April 2023, the FTSE 100 was a mere 13 per cent higher than its 31 December 1999 dot com bubble peak.

To be fair to the FTSE 100, there has been plenty of dividend income paid out along the way, which makes the total return from investing far better.

It should also be noted that the broader FTSE All Share, which encompasses almost all of the Uk stock market, has done better - up 31 per cent since the end of 1999.

Nonetheless, the FTSE 100's 13 per cent rise over 23 years is not a good look for a major global stock market index.

Especially not when that annoying high-achieving big brother across the Atlantic, the S&P 500 has risen 180 per cent.

The good news is that the UK stock market is still cheap.

In its latest Equity Lens report, fund manager Schroders, compared stock market valuations for the US, UK, Europe, Japan and Emerging Markets.

It did this across various measures, CAPE (cyclically adjusted price to earnings), Forward Price to Earnings (P/E), Trailing P/E, Price to Book, and Dividend Yield, and then compared these ratios to their 15-year median.

In its traffic light system, the US scored a sea of expensive red.

The UK, on the other hand was largely cheap green, with forward P/E at 17 per cent below the 15-year median, trailing P/E at 15 per cent below, and price to book at 7 per cent below.

The CAPE ratio for the UK of 14 comes in at 9 per cent above its 15-year median, while the dividend yield is 2 per cent off its medium-term average, but at 3.8 per cent you will be picking up more income at home than in any of those other markets.

Investors are often warned against using any of these valuation metrics in isolation, but when the dashboard lights up like this it is reasonable to say the UK looks fairly cheap.

This backs up what a number of investment professionals and fund managers have been saying for some time – and most argue that despite UK shares’ gains since autumn’s post mini-Budget gloomfest, they are still good value.

Mark Slater, a fund manager for 30 years, who runs the Slater Growth, Income and Recovery Funds, wrote in a recent note to investors: ‘We have not seen so many companies we own trade on single digit P/E multiples since 2008-9.

'Now, as then, as companies grow their earnings while their multiples fall they are getting cheaper and cheaper.

‘It is analogous to holding a beach ball under water. Sooner or later you cannot hold it down any longer and it jumps above the water.

‘For a more accurate analogy, someone would also be pumping air into the beach ball while you try to keep it down.’

This echoes the views of Temple Bar manager Ian Lance in our recent Investing Show interview, who said late last year that 2000 and 2008 was the last time he had seen UK shares at such bargain levels. His investment trust holds 81 per cent of its assets in UK shares, with top ten holdings including BP, Shell, Standard Chartered and M&S.

You will note that these names are far from what is widely considered the cutting edge of the investment world: that's not quite the Apple, Amazon, Alphabet and Moderna list you'd find with many a US or global fund.

Their cheap share prices reflect British stocks being deeply unfashionable and our investing reporter Angharad Carrick looks in more detail at whether the UK stock market is a contrarian opportunity here.

Before you dive into investing though it is important to note a few things.

Firstly, recent history shows you may need a lot of patience and could end up sitting in ‘bargain’ UK shares while other markets outperform.

My own portfolio bears this out, I would have done a lot better backing the supposedly expensive US than the cheap UK over the past ten years.

Secondly, diversification matters, and you need to be careful how much of a portfolio you allocate to a market like the UK, which now makes up just 5.7 per cent of the MSCI ACWI global index compared to the USA’s 54 per cent.

It’s very easy to become far more heavily invested in the UK than you think, which is great if it does well but not so good if it does badly.

Backing individual stocks requires more work than most are willing to put in and the commitment to building a diversified share portfolio of at least 15 to 20 companies that do different things.

A far safer bet is a fund or investment trust that does the work of diversifying for you, but even then, opting for an active manager you think will outperform the market runs the risk of choosing one who ends up falling behind.

Before you dive into an active investment fund or trust, do some solid research on track record and whether the manager's outlook and the fund's risk profile are right for you. You can get some expert ideas in our 50 best funds and investment trusts list, but always do your own research.

And remember, you might be better off opting for a cheap tracker instead.

In fact, before you buy any investment or target any particular country or sector, asking yourself whether putting your money into a cheap global tracker fund instead would be better, is always a wise move.

> The best (and cheapest) investment accounts and stocks and shares Isas