NextGen Collective spotlights Corporate Relocation Senior Vice President of Relocation Operations Karen Cedillos. Ventures Venture Partner Jessica Leon. Read on about her early career lessons, her favorite podcast, and more.

Leesburg, Virginia. My mother is originally from Honduras and my father is from El Salvador.

I am the senior vice president of relocation operations at Corporate Relocation International.

As I was growing up, my parents were my inspiration. They were hardworking, but most importantly, they were relentless in motivating my siblings and me to be successful both professionally and personally, no matter the challenges we faced.

“Ponte las pilas” was a phrase they not only said to me, but also demonstrated. Starting a new life in a foreign country where they did not understand the language, my parents had the drive and determination to become US citzens, build stable careers, and raise four successful children. They were incredible role models and their accomplishments are a reminder that I can accomplish anything as long as I tell myself “ponte las pilas.”

Being open to learning is a crucial trait for any career. In order to stay competitive and relative, it’s essential to keep learning and adapting to new ideas and technologies. Reading books, attenting workshops, and engaging in converstions with people who have different perspectives have helped broaden my knowledge and challenge my own assumptions.

The biggest challenge I see for Latino professionals is advocating for ourselves as it relates to job promotions, pay raises, and a seat at the table. As Latinos, some of us are taught to work hard and be appreciative for what we have and to not ask for anything more. It can be challenging to break that mindset and behavior when we should be advocating for the skills, talent, and experience we bring to our organizations.

The Moth Podcast. It features stories from everyday people that I find incredibly inspiring and eye-opening. It’s easy to get caught up in day-to-day life and forget that everyone around us has their own unique experiences and perspectives. Hearing about the courage, risks, and love that others have experienced helps us to better understand and appreciate the human experience. Plus, it can be a great reminder that we are all connected and have the potiental to learn from and inspire each other.

I take time every morning to practice two things: appreciate the beauty of nature and savor a warm cup of coffee. Both of these rituals set a positive tone for my day and remind me of the importance of prioritizing self-care and creating a calming environment for my daily routine.

Optimism has played a critical role in my success and has been a powerful motivator, helping me stay focused and determined even when faced with obstacles or setbacks.

It’s also important to recongize setbacks can happen, as this helps in refining one’s approach and achieving even greater success in the future.

I tell myself that as long as I maintain a positive outlook and continue to work hard, there’s no doubt that I’ll be able to achieve great things. Another reminder that helps me: stay grounded, keep an open mind, and always be willing to learn and adapt as I move forward.

I can be a thrill seeker. I really enjoy challenging myself by seeking out new activities like skydiving, ziplining, roller coasters, and completing marathons. I’m hoping to include bungee jumping, rock climbing, and white water rafting to the list soon!