French hydrogen producer Lhyfe, in partnership with AEC Occitanie – the regional agency for energy and climate – has started the construction of its third hydrogen production facility.

Following the first two sites in Pays de la Loire (Bouin, Vendée) and in Brittany (Buléon, Morbihan), Lhyfe’s third production site will be in Occitanie. The site is funded 80% by Lhyfe and 20% by AREC Occitanie.

According to the partners, the Lhyfe Occitanie production facility should be operational by the end of 2023. This site will have the capacity to produce two tonnes of green and renewable hydrogen a day (equivalent to a generating capacity of 5 MW), with the possibility to ramp up production to meet growth in hydrogen uses and needs in the region.

The project was selected in late 2021 by the Occitanie Region as part of the Occitanie H2 Corridor scheme. The financing agreement for the project was signed with the Occitanie Region in November 2022. Occitanie is providing €5.9 million to support the site’s creation, including €4.1 million as a repayable advance and €1.89 million in grants.

The aim of the Region for the Occitanie H2 Corridor is to have two renewable hydrogen production facilities by the end of 2024, representing a total of six tonnes of output a day to start, seven hydrogen fuel stations (delivering 600 to 1 200 kg a day), 40 hydrogen-powered trucks, 62 refrigerated trailers/units and 15 regional interurban buses retrofit to run on hydrogen.

Carole Delga, President, Region of Occitanie: “Making green hydrogen one of the energies of the future in Occitanie, is the choice we made in 2019 in adopting a dedicated plan. Today, one of the biggest challenges of energy transition is heavy mobility. That is why the Region has initiated the Occitanie H2 Corridor project, integrating industry and mobility on a European level. I am proud that this project is being developed here in Occitanie and that Lhyfe is contributing to decarbonisation at the heart of our communities.”

Maud Augeai, Head of Territorial Development France at Lhyfe: “Lhyfe Occitanie will be our first achievement in the South of France. We are fully focused on its realisation in order to deliver the first kilos of green and renewable hydrogen from the end of 2023, and enable the transportation of tonnes of goods and thousands of people in the region without emitting CO2. As our plant is modular and scalable, it will adapt to the growth in uses in the coming months and years. Maxime Bourdillat, our Head of Development for South West France, now has an ear to the ground to identify mobility and industry market needs.”