When Katy Simpson Smith finished her history Ph. D. at the University of North Carolina, she found herself frustrated by the boundaries of the discipline. She could tell stories based on strict documentation, as a historian is trained to do. And that was one way to craft a narrative. But it wasn’t very long before Smith turned to writing fiction instead. “As a novelist, I could dive into their hearts and emotions and the feelings of people who did not leave behind diaries,” she says. “And with the research as a foundation, I could bring their worlds to life in a way that, hopefully, is as responsible as I could make it. And that was just so much more rewarding for me to feel like I was telling more three-dimensional stories.”

Smith, now a creative writing professor at Bennington College and the author behind the highly acclaimed books Free Men, Everlasting, and The Story of Land and Sea, dug into the tension between science and storytelling in her latest novel, The Weeds. The narration is broken into tiny sections for each species of plants, almost like little prose poems, and it follows two women in a very similar situation, one in the 1850s who’s been punished by becoming an indentured servant to botanist Richard Deakin, and one in the present day. They’re both assistants to male scientists, both counting the number of plant species that survive in the Roman Colosseum for a scientific paper, and they’re both frustrated by the power dynamics that pervade their jobs. Neither narrator gets a name, but we learn so much about their dreams and affections as they meditate on plants.

Shondaland talked to Smith about the line between scientific observation and anecdote, being a woman in academia, and the way we preserve our memories.

SHELBI POLK: Where did the story originate?

KATY SIMPSON SMITH: It actually originated from my mother walking through the kitchen after just having read an article about a man named Richard Deakin, who visited the Roman Colosseum in the 1850s and documented every species of plant growing there. I remember her walking through and saying, “Did you know there were 420 species of plants in the Colosseum in 1855?” And I don’t know why, but that number and the image of all of the species immediately conjured a structure of a novel. So, I thought, “Okay, how do I tell a story that is broken into these tiny chunks of botanical information and keep it a compelling narrative at the same time?” I had just come off a book that was very heavily researched and very time intensive, and the idea of writing almost like prose poems for each species was very appealing to me. So, that was my entry point.

SP: What about these characters?

KSS: Yeah, I knew I wanted to write about women. One of the very interesting things about Richard Deakin’s original text is that it is very poetic and kind of flowery. He talks a lot about the mythology behind the species, their culinary and medical uses. And there are points at which I thought, “This doesn’t totally sound like a man writing this.” And then my head went into the great mysteries of what if there was actually a female voice behind all of this? What if there was a botanical assistant who was doing the labor, doing the hard work on her hands and knees in the dirt of the Colosseum, and secretly writing this text? And of course, once you start thinking about women behind the scenes, this is such a narrative of women in academia, of women in science, people who are not paid attention to, don’t always get their names on the articles, which is the perfect parallel to talking about weeds. We are these plants that are unwanted, that are growing in places that seem unsightly. People are always trying to dig them out. So, once I started weaving together the stories of these plants and the stories of these women, the whole thing sort of took off for me.

SP: I saw that there are fewer than half of the plant species growing in the Colosseum today compared to the 1850s. Was the Colosseum then more unkempt?

KSS: Exactly. So, in the 19th century, imagine it as a complete jungle. It was totally overgrown. Neighbors in the area would keep kitchen gardens there to grow vegetables and food for their homes. There were little altars that priests would maintain. There was enough high shrubbery that there were a lot of burglars and thieves that prowled and hid in the greenery. So, it’s completely different than what we imagine today. There are some really interesting mid-19th-century engravings of it. And now, of course, it’s been sanitized. Partially, that’s because in the early 20th century, Mussolini had this program of restoring Roman ruins, which is one of very few things that he did well. So as a result, we have this pristine image that is more similar to what it would have looked like in the first and second century. But yes, to imagine these characters in that landscape that was so different from what we see today was pretty exciting.

SP: I feel like that is such a parallel for one of the main themes here, which is how are we preserving our own memories, right? And how are we preserving our own lives? This connection between monuments, plants, and individual memories was really interesting to me.

KSS: Yeah, one of the narrators lost her mother as a teenager, and thinking about how she is holding on not only to the memory of her mother but also to the deep wounds that caused in her, and tracking her kind of emotional progress as she’s in this new place, and she’s trying to grow as a young woman. That was a really interesting and sort of difficult part to write. But I love that idea of parallels.

SP: Well, absolutely, I felt like it did. I was also struck by the different ways of knowing. I felt like both of these characters value their feelings and anecdotes as applied observation versus the hard science they’re being pushed to pursue. Was that something you ran up against when you were in academia?

KSS: Absolutely. I think academia does so many things well. It is rigorous and diligent and connected to sources of information in a way that is vital. But to me, that always felt like a foundation rather than an end point. And I was lucky. I studied in the humanities, and so history as a discipline is so much more open to storytelling than sciences, in many ways. But still, I felt like, “Oh, I’m learning all of this stuff from the archives, but I’m not able to put as much of a human, emotional touch on it as I want to.” And I think these women in science in the book are having these emotional reactions to plants, which I find completely normal. And their male advisers are saying there’s no room for feelings in science, which is both true and entirely untrue. So, I definitely allowed them to go to those emotional spaces that I was probably a little bit too scared to go to when I was in graduate school.

SP: I would love to hear more about why women and the danger of being a woman in academia was such a prominent theme.

KSS: Yeah, doing research is the sort of grunt work of science, right? So, women are assigned certain tasks that great men of science are not as interested in doing. The advisers in this book are more interested in theorizing rather than getting into the field and figuring out how many sepals a blossom has. But the other side of research is that it is very alienating from the self. You’re supposed to be detached from any kind of personal feeling and focused on counting things or recording things. Straightforward observation. So, these women are not comfortable in either of those roles, right? They don’t want to be entirely background figures, nor do they want to come into the field with pure objectivity. So, I think they’re trying to find that middle way of expressing themselves at the same time that they are kind of turning on its head what research could mean.

SP: And it’s an issue of how physically dangerous this can be for women as well.

KSS: Absolutely. Yeah, they’re in the field. They’re getting harassed, catcalled, assaulted in various ways. That is both psychologically threatening and physically quite dangerous.

SP: Truly horrifying that we’re almost 200 years out from the first part of this story and how little has changed.

KSS: Yeah, the story is the same.

SP: The contemporary character has a strained relationship with her home in Mississippi. At one point, she has a conversation with her adviser about why one place is more valuable than the other. Can you dig into that a little?

KSS: Absolutely. I’ve been really interested in this idea, especially because in Jackson, Mississippi, there is a public structure called the Coliseum. So, this narrator is grappling with the possibility of doing a research project connected to the Jackson Coliseum. And if you think about the Roman Colosseum versus the Jackson Coliseum, they were both created as these civic spaces, as these beautiful amphitheaters, to make citizens proud of their community and to provide great entertainment.

Over time, the Roman Colosseum became a jungle and then was restored. And now, millions of people visit it every year and gape at the sort of engineering marvel that it is. Well, the Jackson Coliseum has kind of fallen into disrepair and has not really had a moment of restoration. There’s still shows that are put on there, like the Dixie National Rodeo is held nearby. But it parallels the trajectory of Jackson as a city, which has been in the news so much recently for the water crisis and all kinds of infrastructure challenges that are largely based on over a century of incredibly racist policies on the part of the state. On the other hand, you have Mussolini, who is a fascist that is doing beautiful things for architecture, right? So, both stories are dealing with politics as well as the natural world in very interesting ways. I love the fact that this contemporary narrator is sort of toggling between these two almost like a pinball machine trying to figure out where she is in relation to these two coliseums.

SP: I love that she also kept connecting it to climate change, which is a global concern now. We have records of the Colosseum, so we can trace this change. Jackson, we probably don’t have that yet. We can’t ignore it, but we don’t have the groundwork. So, how do we prioritize what we study and which environments we pay attention to?

KSS: Yeah. And why is it that the Roman Colosseum has had seven floras written about it? Jackson, I don’t know of any that have been written about it. We’re losing so much information at exactly the point in time when information is most needed. But it’s not just objective data that we need. It’s people interpreting it and recognizing these trends, both politically and ecologically, in order to chart a path for the future. And I think one of the things that women excel at is imagining futures beyond their own lives. And I don’t know if that relates to biology and child rearing. But in my brief observations of men in politics, there’s such a focus on “Let’s just do what works for right now.” These women have different answers.

SP: What is your relationship with plants? Did you already notice plants before writing this?

KSS: Totally. I grew up with a gardening mother. She had the most beautiful garden in our neighborhood. And wherever I went after leaving home, I’ve tried to create a garden of my own, first in Chapel Hill and now in New Orleans. It’s so important for me to be surrounded by plants and by things that are blooming, especially in springtime when it’s like a parallel of the human journey. You go through winter, and you’re super-depressed, and you think nothing’s ever going to get better. You’re stalled in various projects, and then you look out your window, and there’s a tiny bulb whose foliage has miraculously appeared above the soil. It can’t help but affect your optimism about life in general. So, that’s absolutely where I look for nourishment. And hope is in the garden.

SP: Oh, wow, yes. Once the daffodils and the dogwoods show up, I know it’s gonna be okay. What about within this book? Do you have a favorite?

KSS: Good question. One of my favorite discoveries was probably the wallflower, which I had never thought about before as an actual species. I’ve always used it just in metaphorical terms. But then I was researching it, and it is this incredibly showy bloom, which runs counter to our understanding of what a wallflower is. Like, I was always described as a wallflower, someone who gets really shy at parties and does not want to be noticed. And then I saw pictures of the flower, and it’s stunning. And I thought, “Oh, where did we go off the rails in our interpretation of this plant?”

Shelbi Polk is a Durham, North Carolina, based writer who just might read too much. Find her online at @shelbipolk on Twitter.

Get Shondaland directly in your inbox: SUBSCRIBE TODAYw