Each week, Shore Sports Network recognizes the top performers in Shore Conference Baseball and gives the fans a chance to choose the best of the best. Below are the six Players of the Week in each of the six Shore Conference baseball divisions, plus four wild-card candidates. Read about their success from last week (April 3 though April 9) and vote for the player who stood out as the overall Player of the Week.

Vote once per hour in the poll at the bottom of this post until the poll closes Thursday at 10 p.m. The winner will be announced on Friday.

Chris Levonas, CBA: Fired six perfect innings with 10 strikeouts in CBA’s season-opening win over Colts Neck and departed with 67 pitches.

Max Woodward, Holmdel: Pitched in each of Holmdel’s first three games, closing out a combined no-hitter on opening day, saving the second win in three days over Raritan, then pitching five solid innings vs. No. 3 Rumson-Fair Haven. Also went 4-for-7 with two doubles.

Brady Lesiak, Southern: Picked up a win in relief in a season-opening win, then knocked in the go-ahead runs in the top of the seventh before closing out a second win in three days for Southern over Central.

Nick Coniglio, Ranney: After teammate Marcello Mastrioanni pitched a season-opening no-hitter, Coniglio did him one better by pitching a five-inning perfect game with 12 strikeouts to complete a Ranney sweep of Red Bank.

Nick Bigotto, Henry Hudson: Recorded a one-out save in a season-opening, 3-2 win over Keyport, then picked up the win on the mound while going 2-for-4 with two RBI at the plate two days later to help the Admirals complete the sweep of the Red Raiders.

Noah Quinn, Lacey: Opened the season with a six-inning one-hitter with 10 strikeouts and also went 5-for-6 with a double, triple and three RBI in two Lions wins over Pinelands.

Charlie Meglio, Jackson Memorial: Delivered in the clutch twice against Toms River North, first with a go-ahead three-run double in an opening-day win, then with a three-run home run and crucial defensive play two days later.

Shane Garrett, Ocean: Picked up a win in two appearances on the mound and went 6-for-12 with two doubles and a triple for the unbeaten Spartans.

Mike Kanskey, Marlboro: Led Marlboro’s high-scoring start on offense by going 6-for-9 with two doubles and five RBI during a 3-0 start for the Mustangs.

Mike Kisseberth, Jackson Liberty: Starred at the plate (6-for-7, double, three RBI) and on the mound (3 2/3 innings, no earned runs, six strikeouts) for the Lions.