LOVE Island star Olivia Bowen looked incredible in skintight gym gear 10 months after giving birth to first baby.

The 29-year-old and husband Alex, 31, welcomed their son Abel into the world in June last year.

The married couple recently jetted off to Barbados for some well-earned rest.

Olivia looked incredible as she showed off her curves in a black sports bra and matching high-waisted leggings.

The reality star was all smiles as she watched her husband and son play in the sea.

Meanwhile Alex opted for a plain white t-shirt and shorts for their visit to the beach.

It comes after Olivia looked incredible as she posed for sexy snaps in pink lingerie.

The mum sent fans into a frenzy with a selection of pictures on her Instagram.

Days before the star she opened up about feeling mum-shamed for not going through a natural birth with her son.

When asked to talk about her birth, Olivia revealed that she tends to avoid that question as she still "struggles" to process it.

She said: "I was really pro no drugs, I really wanted a water birth and I felt I could breath the child out and I think I felt a lot of pressure to do so, not from anyone else just from myself."

She continued: "It felt like you're a woman, you can do this, you were born to do this.

"And when it turned out, no, I couldn't do this, I just felt this huge shame around having an epidural, not being able to have a water birth and not being able to push him out just on my own."

She then explained what happened during her birth after having an epidural.

Olivia said: "It felt like you're a woman, you can do this, you were born to do this. And when it turned out, no, I couldn't do this, I just felt this huge shame around having an epidural, not being able to have a water birth and not being able to push him out just on my own."

Olivia and Alex who met on the ITV2's Love Island in 2016.

The pair placed second just behind Cara De La Hoyde and Nathan Massey.

Months after their stint in the iconic villa, the couple got engaged in New York.

In 2018 they tied the knot.

Olivia and Alex announced their first pregnancy in a sweet New Year's Day post in 2022.