The Pittsburgh Pirates will go against the Colorado Rockies in MLB action in Coors Field, CO, on Wednesday, April 19, 2023, at 3:10 PM ET.

This will be Johan Oviedo’s fourth season-opening start. Oviedo bounced back from a shaky start in the first game by turning up impressive outings against the White Sox and Cardinals.

Last weekend, he pitched seven scoreless innings against the Cardinals and six scoreless innings against the White Sox, but he was charged with the loss, dropping his record to 1-1.

In 18.1 innings pitched, the veteran accumulated a fantastic 2.45 ERA and 1.20 WHIP. In his lone encounter with the Rockies in his career, he allowed three runs over six innings.

Pittsburgh keeps getting better. They won two of their most recent four series, including two over the White Sox and two in four road games last weekend against the Cardinals.

The pitching was the team’s greatest asset; they only allowed the Cardinals to score 11 runs in the whole series and are utilizing excellent beginning pitchers.

* The Pittsburgh Pirates are 10-5 SU in their last 15 matches.

* The Pirates are 4-2 SU in their last 6 outings with Colorado.

* Pittsburgh is 7-2 SU in their last 9 matches on the road.

Austin Gomber wants to recover from a poor start. Last time out, Gomber had his shortest effort of the year against the Mariners, giving up five runs in 3.2 innings, and was given the loss, dropping to 0-3.

The veteran pitcher pitched well against the Padres in the season opener, but he gave up 13 runs and four home runs in 14.1 innings, giving him a season ERA of 8.16 and a WHIP of 1.60.

Gomber is 0-2 with a 5.06 ERA in 21.1 career innings and gave up three runs (two earned) in five innings versus Pittsburgh last season.

After a difficult three-game sweep against the Mariners, Colorado is relieved to be back home. In the series, they scored just five runs while surrendering fifteen.

In their two home series at Coors Field, the Rockies defeated the Nationals once, winning the series. Against the Cardinals, the series was lost.

* The total went UNDER in 4 of Colorado’s last 6 matches.

* The Colorado Rockies are 0-7 SU in their previous 7 meetings.

* The total went UNDER in 10 of Colorado’s previous 13 meetings against Pittsburgh.

Pittsburgh Pirates vs Colorado Rockies. The MLB pick for this game is the Pittsburgh Pirates. The Pittsburgh Pirates are acting confidently right now.

Six of their previous eight road games ended in victories, including a sweep in Boston and two victories in four games last weekend against the Cardinals.

The Rockies are having trouble right now, having lost six straight games going into Tuesday night, including a 14-3 setback to the Pirates in the first game of the series on Monday and another loss on Tuesday.

Johan Oviedo, the Pirates’ starter, was also outstanding. The right-hander kept the Cards to one run in seven innings on Friday after posting 6.2 scoreless innings against the White Sox in his previous start.

Austin Gomber, the Rockies’ starting pitcher, was taken advantage of lately, giving up 10 runs in his last two starts, each lasting only 8.1 innings. The Pittsburgh Pirates will win to a predicted score of 8-5.

MLB Free Premium Picks Predictions. Today’s entire Major League Baseball premium pick predictions are free right now at 1-888-711-4311 or text the word WINBIG to 760-670-3130 to receive them. Included are Best Bets, Totals, Parlays and First Five Inning winners for today free of charge.

Click Here For More MLB Baseball Video Free Picks