Three friends try out recipes from a different cookbook every month

Ali Slagle "I dream of dinner (so you don't have to)"

Andy Baraghani " The Cook You Want To Be"

Caroline Craig and Sophie Missing " The Little Book of Lunch"

Diana Henry " From the Oven to the Table"

Easy Recipes that Will Make You Look Good and Feel Great

Hemsley and Hemsley "The Art of Eating Well"

Jamie Oliver The Return of the Naked Chef

Lisa Faulkner "Recipes from my Mother for my Daughter"

My Paris Kitchen: Recipes and Stories by David Lebowitz

Nigella Lawson "At My Table: A Celebration of Home Cooking"

Stanley Tucci "The Tucci Table: Cooking with Family and Friends"

Tarek Malouf "The Hummingbird Bakery Cake Days: Recipes to make every day special"

The Hubb Community "Together: Our Community Cookbook"

Two Greedy Italians by Carluccio and Contaldo

Angela Hartnett

anna jones

A Taste of Home

Baking

Basil

Beef

Best menus

Bill's Basics

Bill Granger

Bread

Broccoli

Brownies

Cake

Cauliflower

Cheese

Chicken

Chilli

Chocolate

Curry

Deb Perelman

Dessert

Diana Henry

Dinner

Easy

Easy Meals

Ed Smith

Eggs

Feta

Fish

Fish Friday

Forever Summer

FTW

Garlic

Gluten-free

Good Things to Eat

Gordon Ramsay

Gwyneth Paltrow

Hummingbird Bakery

Italian

Jamie's 30 Minute Meals

Jamie Oliver

Kitchen

Lamb

Lemon

Lucas Hollweg

Lunch

Meat Free Monday

Melissa Clark

Nigella Lawson

Nigellissima

Nigel Slater

Our Verdict

Parmesan

Pasta

Pork

Potato

Potatoes

Quick

Rachel Allen

Rice

Risotto

Roast Chicken

ruby tandoh

Sabrina Ghayour

Salad

Salmon

Soup

Spaghetti

Spinach

Steak

Thai

Tomato

Tomatoes

Vegetarian

Yotam Ottolenghi

Kirstin: There is a page in this book where Roman talks about all the things she hates and and all the things she loves about baking. I particularly empathised with some of her reasons on the hate page—all the washing up and special equipment, for instance. How long it takes butter to soften is another. But one of the reasons Tate does not like to bake is not part of this list, and was the reason that my big mother-daughter bonding plan on a Friday afternoon went awry. I had forgotten that Tate finds the imprecision and general bad writing typical of recipes intensely frustrating.

Now over to Tate, who says: For example, step 4 of the recipe said to ‘[a]dd the eggs, one at a time, until the mixture looks extremely light and fluffy, almost like cake frosting, 5 or so minutes.’ The relation of ‘5 or so minutes’ to the rest of the sentence is unclear and confusing. Are you meant to spend 5 minutes slowly pouring in the two eggs? Obviously not. But the verb that is probably meant to go with it (‘beat together’) is two sentences away in the previous step, and has another action after it. I was annoyed that this (and other) recipe(s) seem to value vibes and (attempts at) colloquial parataxis above actually explaining how to cook the thing in a clear, unambiguous manner. While the moth is happy to guess at what a direction is probably meant to convey, I am not, and as a result there was a fair bit of tussling with individual sentences as we tried to bake this recipe together.

Eventually we came to an agreement where I would finish the cake and Tate could go and recover from cookbook’s crimes against communication. Thankfully though we all agreed when I served the cake that grammar issues or not, this cake was divine!

PS Alison Roman, should you ever require a copy editor for your baking recipes please do feel free to contact Tate. They have surprisingly strong opinions about how recipes and directions should be written and I suspect they could do a very good job of it. And I would be happy to try baking along…

Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window)Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)

Privacy & Cookies: This site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.

To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here:

Cookie Policy