MANILA, Philippines — Senator Nancy Binay on Tuesday said she is now “totally against” the plans of the Bureau of Corrections (BuCor) to build a new headquarters within the Masungi Georeserve in Rizal province.

“After ko makita ito (Masungi), I’m totally against the plan. Sabi ko nga, after ng trip na ‘to … ico-convince ko ang aking seat mates (fellow senators) na mag-hiking rin dito para makita nila na may ganitong lugar na kailangang protektahan,” Binay told reporters, folowing the Senate’s ocular inspection of the area.

“Tutol, lalong-lalo na nakita ko na ganito pala ang makikita dito,” she added.

In February, the BuCor asserted its ownership of 270 hectares of the Masungi Georeserve, citing Proclamation No. 1158 issued by then-President Gloria Arroyo in 2006, which basically reserved “government-owned land” in Barangays Cuyumbay, Laiban, San Andres, and Tinucan in Tanay for BuCor, tagging the areas as the “new site of the New Bilibid Prison.”

The BuCor even floated its plans to build its facilities in the landscape’s “Lot 10” – which contains the main rock spine of the Masungi Georeserve’s limestone karst formation.

According to Binay, however, constructing any kind of building in the said area is impossible.

READ: BuCor HQ at Masungi Georeserve: What’s really at stake?

“Space-wise, ‘yung lupa dito sa Masungi parang hindi ideal to construct, whether it’s a Bilibid o anong facility, parang hindi angkop sa terrain,” she added.

When asked on what the Senate will do to address the issue, Binay said it would still have to study its next moves, including ways to transfer the reserved BuCor land back to Masungi, or to a more appropriate agency.

“Kasi, at the end of the day, ang National Bilibid Prison is a part of government, so that is also still government property,” she explained.

“Pagaaralan pa ng committee kung paano ‘yung (the committee will still study what’s) quickest way to solve the problem,” she added.

Binay also stressed the need to ensure the discontinuity of BuCor’s decision, that halting its plans to construct buildings in Masungi would not only happen under its current administration.

READ: Deferred BuCor HQ plan in Masungi sparks hope it will be ‘scrapped altogether’

The Masungi Georeserve is a 300-hectare wide conservation area located in the Sierra Madre Mountain Range. It is 600 meters above sea level and is known as a sanctuary for an array of fauna and flora.

The Masungi Georeserve is mainly characterized by its caves, limestone karst peaks, and surrounding lush rainforests.