Meet the Gene Team: Jeni Herrera-Mullar, MGC, CGC, DMA, presents the Gene of the Month, MSH3

The Gene Team is an essential part of Ambry Genetics. This passionate team of experts is inspired by advancing the science of gene characterization and being able to help patients. For our second installment, we would like to introduce Jeni Herrera-Mullar, MGC, CGC, DMA, Principal Clinical Scientist at Ambry Genetics.

Jeni is a member of the Gene Team and is involved in the assessment of gene-disease relationships for both newly-described candidate genes and well-established genes with a focus on hereditary cancer. Prior to this role, Jeni worked as a reporting genetic counselor and a Genomic Science Liaison at Ambry Genetics, in addition to practicing clinically as a prenatal and oncology genetic counselor. Jeni is highly interested in the field of gene-disease validity, and specifically its adaptation to common disease such as cancer. She is passionate about research and education in this arena, and is actively involved in research to better characterize the tumor spectrum in novel and established hereditary cancer genes. Jeni is also an active collaborator in continuing to refine the gene-disease associations scoring criteria to better capture the complexities in hereditary cancer such as pleiotropy, phenocopy, and reduced penetrance. She is a member of ClinGen working groups, including the Hereditary Breast, Ovarian, and Pancreatic Cancer VCEP and the Hereditary Cancer GCEP.

Watch this video to learn more about Jeni and what inspires her, an explanation of gene-disease validity and its importance for patients and clinicians and an analysis of how the science of gene curation has changed over time.

The Gene of the Month is MSH3. Mutations in this gene were initially thought to possibly play a role in Lynch syndrome, but studies have shown that is not the case. Interestingly, researchers recently made a discovery about the effects of biallelic mutations in this gene. Watch the video below as Jeni Herrera-Mullar explains the significance for patients.

Ambry is committed to delivering the most accurate genetic test results possible. Learn more about our products today.

Get stories just like it, delivered right to your inbox.

Jodi is a Content Writer at Ambry Genetics. She loves telling inspiring patient stories and communicating how scientific advancements can help improve people's health.

DISCLAIMER: THIS BLOG DOES NOT PROVIDE MEDICAL ADVICE

The information, including but not limited to, text, graphics, images and other material contained on this blog are for informational purposes only. The purpose of this blog is to promote broad understanding and knowledge of various health topics. It is not intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Always seek the advice of your physician or other qualified health care provider with any questions you may have regarding a medical condition or treatment and before undertaking a new health care regimen, and never disregard professional medical advice or delay in seeking it because of something you have read on this blog. Ambry Genetics Corporation does not recommend or endorse any specific tests, physicians, products, procedures, opinions or other information that may be mentioned on this blog. Reliance on any information appearing on this blog is solely at your own risk.

Subscribe to our blog for updates, sent out every month.

Meet the Gene Team: Jeni Herrera-Mullar, MGC, CGC, DMA, presents the Gene of the Month, MSH3