PETER Andre's wife Emily has given fans a rare peek at their daughter Amelia after she reached an impressive milestone.

Emily, 33, took to social media to share her pride and delight to celebrate nine-year-old Amelia's latest achievement.

As the couple choose to keep their two children out of the spotlight, the snap of Amelia - or Millie for short - is taken from behind.

With her hair in bunches, the schoolgirl is wearing a Kung Fu uniform and she has her leg extended in the air in a side kick pose.

Emily wrote alongside it: "So proud of Millie and Theo, after starting Kung Fu recently with our good friend Sifu Paul Hawkes, they have both been awarded their white sash today! Well done kids."

Peter, 50, was quick to comment on his wife's post about their daughter.

The proud dad replied: "My little king fu ninja."

Emily also received a nice comment from Amelia and Theo's coach.

He wrote: "Mills and Theo were on great form and aced their grading.

"They’re a pleasure to teach, they’ve made such progress since starting. Wonderful chatting and thanks for a very tasty dinner."

Earlier this week, Emily opened up about her marriage and admitted their hectic schedules are "crazy".

She exclusively told The Sun that they squeeze in date nights when they can, adding: "[Pete] hasn't been this busy in years, it's crazy.

"He's doing loads of different things and it's one after the next - he'll finish one thing and then there's something else.

"He finished a movie today, he's got TV shows, he's got so many things internationally and then he's in Australia in the middle of a tour."

Speaking at the No7 Future Renew launch event, she added: "I always miss him when he's away.

"Tonight he's at home babysitting which never happens, the kids are really excited.

"When he's not there, I literally leave his side of the bed completely untouched - the cushions are still there, so in the night I almost feel that he's still there. I literally just sleep in a straight line.

"He's always gone away a lot since we've been together but I always miss him."

Emily is also stepmum to Pete's kids from his relationship with Katie Price, son Junior 17, and 15-year-old daughter Princess.