Saturday, April 22—KILLINGTON—The annual spring festival and Killington Resort passholder appreciation day will be held Saturday, April 22 at the K-1 Lodge. The resort will provide a deep music lineup playing all day including The Expendables, Harsh Armadillo, and DJ Dave.

Beast 365, Winter 22/23, and Midweek passholders are eligible to receive a free BBQ lunch at K-1 after presenting their pass to a guest services member as part of passholder appreciation day. Options include cheeseburger, hot dog, buffalo chickpea burger and jerk chicken burrito (limited). All meals come with entrée, side, soda and a dessert.

Midweek passholders will also be eligible to buy a discounted lift ticket for the day (Saturday) in-person at a Killington ticket window.

1:30 p.m. – 3:00 p.m. Harsh Armadillo on the Dazed & Defrosted stage (slope side of K-1)

4-5:30 p.m. The Expendables on the Dazed & Defrosted stage (slope side of K-1)

Harsh Armadillo is often described as “upbeat and funky.” Led by multi-instrumentalist Thomas (Teeba) Forbes (DMX, Nas, Denaun…), Harsh Armadillo creates original music that combines funk, hip-hop, and soul to make your hips swing.

The Expendables have enjoyed a nearly 25-year career since starting out as a spirited party band in high school performing surf-rock covers for birthdays and family gatherings. A quarter-century later, elementary school buddies Raul Bianchi, Adam Peterson and Geoff Weers, along with bassist Ryan DeMars, who joined in 2000, have forged a unique sound born in the laid-back beach life in their hometown of Santa Cruz, California.

The Expendables’ infectious hybrid of ska, surf-rock, punk, reggae and metal can be heard in their latest streaming track, “Surfman Cometh,” a spaghetti-western meets “Pipeline” twang that could easily form the soundtrack to the latest Quentin Tarantino film. The song is the first release from the group’s new and improved Band Room, their longtime rehearsal space in a 1,100 square foot warehouse and former wine cellar on Coral Street, where Adam Patterson took charge of the final mix to great effect.

The band’s previous studio album of original material, 2015’s Sand in the Sky, was followed by The Expendables’ second release featuring acoustic reworkings of past material, Gone Raw, 2019’s follow-up to 2012’s Gone Soft. The Expendables continue woodshedding until they can get back out on the road. Their 2017 Moment EP, which debuted at No. 1 on the Billboard Reggae chart, showed the band starting to move into different musical directions, a set featuring collaborations with reggae crooner HIRIE, rapper Tech N9ne, Eric Rachmany, and Micah Peuschel.