Halle Berry sent a cryptic message after a troll criticized her for posing nude in her 50s.

A Twitter user accused Halle, 56, of attention-seeking behavior when she shared a photo of herself sipping wine in her birthday suit over the weekend.

'Imagine being in your 50s, still posting nudes for attention in menopause when you should be chilling with the grandkids. Aging with dignity is no longer a thing,' the Twitter user tweeted.

Berry re-tweeted the message and replied, 'Did you guys know the heart of a shrimp is located in its head?'

The original photo was posted Saturday, and depicted her standing on a balcony in a pose which strategically protected her modesty.

The Oscar winning performer wrote in the caption to her 8.3 million fans, 'I do what I wanna do.'

The filmmaker added a red lip kiss emoji and wished her fans a 'happy Saturday.'

Berry leaned on the railing of a scenic terrace that was decorated with green plants.

Sunlight poured over her as she indulged in a sip of a beverage that appeared to be white wine.

Her golden locks spilled around her, falling over one side of her chest as fluffy bangs framed her face.

The post has so far drawn over 300,000 likes from her zealous supporters, actress and singer Halle Bailey among them.

The Little Mermaid star also joined in the comments to drop a clapping hands emoji.

And one fan praised the snapshot as she wrote, 'Looks like a cover from a romantic novel, one where a woman fell in love with herself wholeheartedly.'

Last weekend the silver screen siren uploaded a different post in the same vein, as she modeled a black string bikini that flashed her cleavage.

The mother-of-two stood outside on a balcony overlooking the ocean as she leaned against a glass partition.

She wrote in that caption, 'Keeping my spirits up,' as she clutched a champagne flute.

Berry was also active on the photo-sharing platform on Friday, April 7, as she continued her weekly fitness series.

The ambitious workout enthusiast wrote in the caption, 'Happy #FitnessFriday! Head over to @respin.com to catch what @peterleethomas and I are up to this week!'

The star has been training with the fitness professional for years, dating back to 2018.

The clip, which was soundtracked by the song What It Is by Doechii, showed her doing a circuit in her backyard.

She added in the caption, 'Peter rē•spun the fun to a backyard agility workout! What I love about this is anyone can do it.

So let’s go y’all…all you need is a ball, some cones or small objects, and an ab wheel— and of course a backyard, park, or hallway!'

In the past the Ohio-bred performer has credited Thomas with whipping her into the 'best and strongest shape' of her life.

In a 2018 birthday tribute posted to Instagram she said, 'This MAN right here?? Where to even begin… Happy birthday my spirit animal health nut @peterleethomas!!'

'Thank you for taking my fitness journey to where it belongs - it has transformed my life and I am eternally grateful! Here’s to another beautiful trip around the sun,' she gushed.

And each Friday, for years, she has taken to the photo-sharing platform to post fitness and diet tips and share videos of herself working out with Peter.