Set Educated, a new skills development initiative, will prepare up to 400 Victorians to enter the screen industry.

The initiative by Media Mentors Australia with VicScreen kicks off with events in Geelong and Melbourne, showcasing what kind of crewing jobs are available and how to get them. The program will later tour around the country.

Participants will learn how screen content is made, the make-up of the Victorian screen ecosystem, role responsibilities, as well as receiving hands-on experience with camera, lighting and sound equipment, and everything you need to land work, from CV writing to working with crewing agencies.

The initiative is designed to attract participants from a wide variety of industries, with in-person and online workshops delivered by industry experts for specific roles which are in high demand, including Location Managers, Grips and Gaffers.

Media Mentors Co-Founders Denise Eriksen and Esther Coleman Hawkins said: “We recognise that there’s a huge pool of people who would love to work in the screen industries but have little or no idea about jobs beyond producers, directors and writers.

“The jobs are out there, working in allied industries, with highly sought after skills. We’ll be introducing participants to a world of possibilities and providing them the knowledge they need to take their places on productions.”

VicScreen CEO, Caroline Pitcher, said: “With our local screen industry continuing to expand, we are always looking at effective methods of growing our highly skilled workforce. Along with our comprehensive attachments and placements programs, this initiative will foster the next generation of screen practitioners, which will in turn grow our local talent pool and our ability to take on more premium productions.”

Martine Broderick, Freelancers Promotions said: “The Team at Freelancers Promotions are thrilled to support Media Mentors in this pilot initiative. It will be very helpful to us and the industry to have a pool of new people that we can provide pathways into the industry whether they be attachment programs, more training or on set roles.”

Set Educated: ACMI Melbourne on Saturday 20 May / Geelong on Sunday, 21 May.

mediamentors.com.au/set-educated