Private equity firm Warburg Pincus is set to become the largest institutional shareholder in China-based Zhou Asset Management after buying a 23.3% stake.

Warburg Pincus will pay US$7.5 million for the share, which has been purchased from Italy-based Intesa Sanpaolo Bank.

The deal, which has been approved by the China Securities Regulatory Commission, was facilitated by WP Asia Pacific Asset Management.

The other significant shareholders include Zhong Ou Chairman Dou Yuming, who owns a 25% stake, Guodu Securities and employee stock ownership programs which each hold 20% shares.

The purchase adds to Warburg Princus’s presence in China’s lucrative $2 trillion mutual funds market. In 2017, the private equity firm bought a 49% stake in Hwabao WP Fund Management and still holds a 29% share.

©2023 funds global asia

Why take advantage of the recent dip in China’s internet sectors

China's internet market presents one of the most compelling long-term growth potentials for investors today, given the catalysts supporting the...

The China Plus One narrative might affect “the world’s factory” and give opportunities for India and other countries well-placed to assume...

How investors can turn Japan’s social challenges into advantages

Japan has several long-term social and economic challenges, and looking for companies that seek to address these can be a way to find firms with good fundamentals,...

As Japanese households and companies wake up to the return of inflation for the first time in 40 years, investors should be prepared, explains Adrian Hickey, head of Japanese equities, Pictet Asset Management...

Executive interview: PGIM CEO on where the ESG flowers should bloom

David Hunt, president and chief executive of PGIM, tells Romil Patel about leading a top 10 global asset manager in times where “empowering and encouraging the kind of investment decisions as...

Nicolas Moreau, CEO of HSBC Asset Management, is moving to Asia as the firm looks to connect more directly with the region’s growth story. ESG is also a key focus – including the ‘just’ carbon...

Roundtable: Singapore comes of age  as an Asian ESG hub

Strong ESG credentials strengthen the case for Singapore as a leader in Asia of the post-Covid recovery. Our panel discusses the risks and opportunities.

Roundtable: How well geared are Japanese assets for a new world?

As we prepare to emerge from Covid, experts look at overcoming demographic issues through a combination of good tech and corporate governance, improving productivity and meeting an ambitious government carbon emissions reduction target. Chaired by Romil Patel.

Edward Glyn, Head of Global Markets at Calastone, discusses some of the most intriguing findings from our recent research into automation in the global investment management industry.

Register for our webinar, in partnership with Clarity AI, to learn how to effectively build sustainable portfolios by mastering ESG metrics.

Join our mailing list to receive our latest news updates, magazine features, thought leadership and market research & analysis.