Skip to main contentSkip to main content

Sign up for our newsletter to keep reading.

Be the first to know

Get local news delivered to your inbox!

You are the owner of this article.

You have permission to edit this article.

Architect David Gray discussed the state of the Old Post Hospital Wednesday.

The Polson police chief announced his retirement on Tuesday following the news of a DUI allegation against him. A car crash allegedly involving Wade Nash occurred on Saturday, according to Montana Highway Patrol Sergeant Jay Nelson. Highway patrol troopers were requested to investigate the crash, and evidence at the scene spurred an impaired driving investigation. Lake County Attorney James Lapotka confirmed to the Missoulian a misdemeanor DUI citation was issued in Lake County Justice Court against Nash pertaining to an incident over the weekend.The citation alleges that early Saturday morning, Nash hit a parked vehicle along 12th Street East in Polson, The Daily Interlake reported, and he was subsequently arrested at the scene and refused a blood alcohol test. He will appear in court later this month.

UPDATED: One dead following car crash in Snowbowl parking lot

Name of person killed in Snowbowl parking lot released

Polson City Manager Ed Meece said Nash will officially retire on May 2, but will be on sick leave in the weeks leading up to then. Meece said the city named current Polson Police Captain George Simpson as the interim chief, and officials will hire a permanent chief down the line.Nash was appointed as Polson’s police chief in 2011. Before he became Polson’s police department lead, he worked at various law enforcement agencies across Montana including Fish Wildlife & Parks, the Lake County Sheriff’s Office and the Northwest Montana Drug Task Force, according to the City of Polson website.

Zoë Buchli is the criminal justice reporter for the Missoulian.

You must be logged in to react.

Click any reaction to login.

Be the first to know

Get local news delivered to your inbox!

* I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy.

Zoë Buchli is the criminal justice reporter for the Missoulian.

Your notification has been saved.

There was a problem saving your notification.

Email notifications are only sent once a day, and only if there are new matching items.

Please log in to use this feature

Log In

Don't have an account? Sign Up Today

Architect David Gray discussed the state of the Old Post Hospital Wednesday.

Name of person killed in Snowbowl parking lot released

Raymondo L. Tesoro, 66, of Lolo, died on April 5, according to Missoula County Sheriff Jeremiah Petersen.

Alan D. Wright, 27, is charged with two felonies and nine misdemeanors.

Bradley D. Nagel, 54, pleaded guilty to one count of vehicular homicide while under the influence in January.

Doug Overman has spent the last five years as Kalispell’s police chief.

Biden in Northern Ireland to mark 25 years of Good Friday agreement

Biden in Northern Ireland to mark 25 years of Good Friday agreement

You don't have any notifications.

Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.