Skip to Content

The Rev. Anthony Evans, president of the National Black Church Initiative (NBCI), will deliver the keynote address at the Association of Collaborative Communities Equipping Youth for STEEAAM Success (ACCEYSS) Faith and Community Summit at Texas State University on April 14-15.

The event will be held at Embassy Suites by Hilton San Marcos Hotel Conference Center.

The NBCI is a coalition of 150,000 African American and Latino churches comprised of 27.7 million churchgoers.

“Without hesitation, the Black church is all in for the promotion of science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) education,” Evans said. “Over the next seven years, we will prioritize STEM education as an important career pathway for African American and Latino students. The pursuit of STEM fields offers the necessary credentials to prepare these students with the appropriate knowledge and skills to attain economic stability. This is why we are excited in joining with Dr. Shetay Ashford-Hanserd and Texas State University as a primary supporter of her visionary leadership.”

Evans is the author of the “Comprehensive Educational Framework-Policy and Engagement Strategies for Modus Operandi” and “An Implementation Guide: A Companion Resource with The National Black Church Initiative’s Comprehensive Education Framework: Policy and Engagement Strategies for Modus Operandi.” He advocates for quality educational as a means to prepare individuals for opportunities and access. More information about the education documents can be found at www.naltblackchurch.com/education/index.html

Given the number of school-age children within NBCI congregations, Ashford-Hanserd is a natural partner in the endeavor to support STEM education.

Ashford-Hanserd has produced ground-breaking research on promising practices for students within the STEM fields. Evans said he considers it to be the job of the church to promote the authentic voices of scholar leaders within the Black church who have expertise within STEM and related disciplines. Thus, Ashford-Hanserd is one of the leaders that NBCI will engage in its efforts to further generate an academic blueprint on the role of the church for ensuring more adequate representation of African Americans and Latinos in the STEM fields.

The pursuit of STEM fields is the one area the church vows to utilize the enormity of its organizational structure to generate relationships and resources to prepare our children with intentionality for the workforce ahead.

The National Black Church Initiative (NBCI) is a coalition of 150,000 African American and Latino churches working to eradicate racial disparities in health care, technology, education, housing and the environment. The mission of NBCI is to provide critical wellness information to all of its members, congregants, churches and the public. NBCI utilizes faith and sound health science and partners with major organizations and officials to reduce racial disparities in the variety of areas cited above. NBCI’s programs are governed by credible statistical analysis, science-based strategies and techniques, and methods that work. NBCI also offers faith-based, out-of-the-box and cutting-edge solutions to stubborn economic and social issues.