As summer approaches make sure to catch these blockbusters that are soon to hit the big screen.

Releasing May 5, fans are anticipating another volume of The Guardians of the Galaxy with Chris Pratt leading as Peter Quill. Volume 3 will pick up after the loss of Gamora and continue protecting the universe and themselves, or it might be the end of our Guardians. Movie theorists have been discussing the official poster for the new film leaking a potential character death, most likely Dax the Destroyer.

A new live-action showcasing on May 26 brings the childhood film The Little Mermaid to life with a diverse set of actors. Grammy Award winner Halle Bailey has the leading role of Ariel, with companion actor Jonah Hauer-King playing Prince Eric. Early complaints from the media about the CGI and coloring looking a little “weird” will have to hold their comments until it releases. Expectations are high for this fan favorite film.

An animation film of the popular series Spider-Man will drop on June 2 at the start of summer. The movie will include Miles Morales and Gwen Stacy encountering a variety of Spider-People, handling a new threat, and redefining what it means to be a hero protecting the people he loves most. Shameik Moore will continue voice-acting Morales in this film, alongside previous voice-acting partner Hailee Steinfeld who plays Gwen Stacy.

A new film based on four Asian American friends bonding together will hit the screens on July 7. Adele Lim had previously directed the popular hit Crazy Rich Asians and is the director of Joy Ride. The plot revolves around friends traveling to Asia together to search for one of the character’s birth mother. The trailer has fans shocked and excited for the movie to release due to the comedy plot twist at the start of the video.

Coming to theaters on July 21, director Greta Gerwig transforms popular doll Barbie by Mattel into reality on the screen. The film will be about Barbie from ‘Barbieland’ being expelled for not being perfect enough and has set on adventuring the real world. Fans are excited over leading roles acting by big stars such as Margot Robbie on Barbie and Ryan Gosling being Ken. This is the first live-action Barbie movie.