LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA: Rob Lowe appears to be in fantastic shape both physically and mentally at age 59, and he credits his wife Sheryl Berkoff for "saving" his life after he wasted years because of insobriety. The Hollywood heartthrob has had an illustrious career with notable credits in 'St. Elmo's Fire,' 'The Outsiders,' and even 'Parks and Recreation.'

Like several others in the film industry, Lowe struggled with substance abuse in the early days of his career. However, things drastically changed after he met his now-wife. After meeting her, he was determined to kick his addictions and turn a new leaf to become the best version of himself.

John Owen Lowe reveals how he discovered dad Rob Lowe's infamous 1988 sex tape at school

What is Rob Lowe's Net Worth? A look at '911: Lone Star' lead's long Hollywood career and earnings

Hollywood was a different place from what it is now when Lowe landed his breakout role in 'The Outsiders.' Beer was readily available for the then-17-year-old actor in his trailer. Lowe eventually developed a taste for illicit substances. He once said he identified a lot with his 'St. Elmo's Fire' character, described as a "loveable rogue." The acclaimed thespian admitted his early twenties were rather debaucherous — enjoying a series of short-lived romances and a fast-paced life. However, he hit rock bottom when he turned 26.

On a fateful night in the year 1990, Lowe arrived home from a night of partying and discovered his mother had left a message on his answering machine. She informed her son that his grandfather had suffered a heart attack and pleaded with him to pick up the phone. However, Lowe dealt with the situation the only way he knew. "I remember going into the bathroom, looking at myself in the mirror, and my thought process was, 'You need to drink directly from this bottle of Cuervo Gold so you can go to sleep, so you can wake up, so you can deal with this,'" he told People in January 2022. The actor realized that he could no longer sustain his lifestyle and entered rehab 48 hours later. He also decided to build a life outside his acting career. "I always wanted that life; I really wanted kids. I wanted a normal life outside of Hollywood," Lowe told Entertainment Tonight.

Lowe met Sheryl Berkoff in 1983 after they went on a blind date together. However, they got into a romantic relationship only in 1989. The pair worked together on the set of 'Bad Influence', where Lower was an actor and Berkoff was a well-known makeup artist.

Lowe knew he could spend the rest of his life with Berkoff, but acknowledged that his substance abuse and fast lifestyle would ruin things for them. He knew he had to bring himself back on the straight and narrow if he wanted to make it work. The lovebirds eventually tied the knot in 1991 and welcomed their first child in 1993. Lowe said he didn't regret his life before meeting Berkoff because he learned so much, but admitted he was ready to be a soccer dad.

In May 2021, Lowe opened up about the impact his wife had on his life. "Listen, she may have saved my life, really," he told Entertainment Tonight of Sheryl. "I mean, she met me when I was at the end of my '80s run of wild boy craziness and she was worth changing my life for. And so I am really lucky that that happened to me. Maybe I had changed it on my own, maybe, but it's a big maybe. And just when I met her, I knew that if I could not make it with her, I definitely could not make it work with anyone else." The doting couple now seems content in their relationship and regularly stun their fans with how young they still look. Lowe shared a photo earlier this week of himself and Berkoff all dressed up to go out.

Lowe looked dapper in a black suit with a matching thin black tie. He completed the look by styling his hair in his signature spikes and smirked at the camera. Meanwhile, Berkoff oozed elegance in a plunging black top adorned with rhinestones and accessorized with black hoop earrings. She styled her blonde tresses in waves and completed the look with smokey eyes and soft red lips.