The “Confidence in” series looks at how Australians consumers benefit from accreditation every day. It highlights NATA’s role to help ensure the products and services Australians buy, use, and sell can be trusted to comply with national and international Standards.

NATA’s accreditation services have been servicing the best interests of Australians for more than 75 years, providing testing, calibration, and technical standards’ competency that touch our daily lives.

This ranges from the food we eat and drink, the products we use to build our homes and our roads to mining, construction, health pathology services, international trade, and much more.

Produced as four short videos the “Confidence in” series will run across digital and social channels from 19 April.

So many of our daily activities we almost take for granted, because we have a hidden Standards and Conformance framework underpinning the work Australian laboratories do

Future episodes in the series focus on accreditation’s impact for Australian trade, our services industry as well as highlighting the important role of volunteer technical assessors, which form part of NATA’s unique peer-review framework, using subject matter experts in the field to assess laboratories ensuring Australia has lab results we can all rely on.

Described as one of “Australia’s best kept secrets”, NATA is the world’s oldest accreditation body and a not-for-profit organisation which has been working behind the scenes “testing the testers” for more than 75 years, helping deliver confidence and assurance for domestic and international products and services.

“Confidence is presumed within many areas of our lives, thanks to some unsung scientific heroes. It’s fantastic that we live in a country where we can trust the quality of our drinking water, the dependable structures of our roads and bridges and even rely on the outcome of our PCR Covid-19 tests,” said NATA Chief Executive Officer Jennifer Evans.

“So many of our daily activities we almost take for granted, because we have a hidden Standards and Conformance framework underpinning the work Australian laboratories do, so we’re excited to highlight through this video series the often-forgotten role on World Laboratory Day.

“Accreditation remains the invisible thread for our economy that has been delivering for almost eight decades, and I’d love Australians to take a moment in recognition this 23rd April, as we will, to celebrate the continued efforts of our unsung heroes.”

NATA Head of Marketing and Communications, Brendon Moo, added: “NATA accreditation provides confidence and assurance in the testing of products and services that benefit consumers in so many ways every day and the aim of the ‘Confidence in’ series was to tell that story.

“We’ve been able to create this connection as we see our presenter Yannick walk and transition through different scenes while talking about the role of testing and NATA accreditation and how it impacts our daily lives, benefiting global trade and Australian industry.”