* Milwaukee is laying 5.5 points in the Heat vs Bucks odds for Game 2 of their opening-round playoff series

* Giannis Antetokounmpo (back) missed practice on Tuesday and is listed as doubtful

* Check out the latest Heat vs Bucks Game 2 picks, plus injury news, betting splits and prop bets to target

There’s a silver lining to Milwaukee’s embarrassing Game 1 loss to Miami. That’s the fact that the Bucks have won five of their past six series after dropping the opening game.

Milwaukee will look to continue that trend this year, and it starts at home on Wednesday in Game 2. Online sportsbooks like their chances in the NBA odds, however in order to get back into the series they’ll likely have to overcome a potentially devastating blow on the injury front – more on that later.

The Bucks are currently favored by 5.5 points, in a contest that features a total of 219. Tip-off is scheduled for 9 pm ET at Fiserv Forum in Milwaukee, WI, with NBA TV providing the broadcast coverage.

Odds as of April 18 at DraftKings Sportsbook.

Milwaukee fans held their collective breath in Game 1 when Giannis Antetokounmpo crashed to the floor after charging into Kevin Love. The NBA MVP odds finalist played just 11 minutes before exiting the game with a lower back bruise, but the good news is no structural damage was found.

Giannis missed practice on Tuesday but hasn’t been ruled out of Game 2 yet. Head coach Mike Budenholzer was optimistic he could potentially suit up on Wednesday, but the team has officially listed him as doubtful.

The Bucks announced that Giannis Antetokounmpo (back) is doubtful for Game 2 vs. the Heat on Wednesday. pic.twitter.com/bHewmcTOMS

For what it’s worth, oddsmakers don’t quite know what to make of the situation. Milwaukee was an 8.5 point favorite in Game 1 with everyone healthy, but are 5.5 points favorites as mentioned on Wednesday. If Giannis was definitely out that number would be much shorter, as few players are as important to their team as he is.

Antetokounmpo wasn’t the only big name to go down in Game 1. The Heat lost Tyler Herro to a broken hand. He’ll miss the entire series, and likely won’t be ready to return until the NBA Finals if Miami were to make it that far.

In terms of how the betting market is handling the news there’s a sharp divide between the public and the big money bettors. 62% of the spread tickets are backing Miami as 5.5 point underdogs, but those wagers only account for 36% of the handle. That means those who bet biggest are on the Bucks.

As for the total, the majority of bettors don’t think 219 points is nearly enough. 72% of the over/under bets are on the over, as is 65% of all money that’s been wagered on the total.

Milwaukee has plenty of experience playing without Antetokounmpo this season, as he missed 19 games. The Bucks were 11-8 in those contests, although they did see a dip in offensive production.

Milwaukee averaged just 112 points per contest without Giannis, which is four points fewer than their season average. They actually faced the Heat twice without their superstar, both times in Miami, and things did not go well.

The Bucks fell 108-102 and 111-95 in back-to-back games in South Beach sans Giannis, shooting just 40% in both contests.

Milwaukee is still a -215 favorite to win this series and advance to the next round in the NBA playoff bracket, and shouldn’t be considered dead in the water if they drop Game 2. The last time the Bucks fell behind 0-2 was in the 2021 NBA Finals, and they proceeded to reel off four straight wins to capture the title.

Until we get word on Antetokounmpo’s official status I would hold off betting either a side or total. Of course, if you’re convinced he sits go ahead and fire the Heat at +5.5 now, because that line is only getting shorter if he is ruled out.

That doesn’t mean there aren’t wagers to target. The player prop menu is up and bettors should be looking to fade Gabe Vincent after his scorching hot Game 1 performance. Vincent shot 5-of-6 from the field, including 4-of-5 from three, numbers he simply can’t sustain.

One of my biggest takeaways to gameplan in this series without Tyler Herro is who the third mid-range pull-up threat will be

They need somebody willing to take that shot at the elbow

For starters, he’s likely to see plenty of Jrue Holiday, who’s one of the top guard defenders in the league. Vincent’s playing time is far from guaranteed, with veteran Kyle Lowry chomping at the bit on the bench, and he’s got a long track record of struggling from the field this season.

Vincent boasts just a 40.2% field goal percentage, and averages only eight shots per game. He’s a career 33% three-point shooter, and only one team (Memphis) limited opponents to a lower field goal percentage than Milwaukee during the regular season. Expect major regression for Vincent in Game 2.