Phil Rothfield has claimed on NRL 360 Jack Wighton's State of Origin snub was a result of being 'peeved' with his axing last year and it could be a sign the five-eighth could be on the move north to the Dolphins. Wighton has been in the centre of contract speculation in recent weeks with the Canberra five-eighth set to test the NRL open market.

And amid doubt over where the 30-year-old will be playing in the coming seasons, Wighton made the shock announcement he won't be up for selection for this year's State of Origin as he calls time on representative footy. Wighton was seen as a possible selection for the Blues once again having played in 10 games at representative level with the versatile player a coach's dream.

However, Blues selector Greg Alexander confirmed Wighton had spoken to Blues coach Brad Fittler on Monday to announce his withdrawal from selection. While the news is a blow to the Blues as they seek to regain the State of Origin shield, The Daily Telegraph reporter Rothfield said could be more to Wighton's retirement from representative footy than meets the eye.

Rothfield claimed Wighton was annoyed at missing out on selection for Game III last year, which was a shock for many after his stellar performance in Game I playing at centre. He missed Game II due to Covid-19.

And the veteran reporter claimed Wighton is seeking a move to the new NRL team and his focus on club football will make him more valuable. “He’ll go to the Dolphins, I really think he will,” Rothfield said on NRL 360.

“He’s a more valuable player not playing State of Origin, there’s that six-week period in the middle of the season where he’ll be available for the Dolphins and not getting bashed up in the heaviest body contact in world sport - Origin.

“He was a little bit peeved (about missing selection in the 2022 decider) and I think it’s one of the reasons he was weighing it up.” Former Roosters five-eighth Braith Anasta admitted there was something unusual about his latest move and questioned: "So what is going on?”

While Brent Read admitted that the speculation is swirling that Wighton could be seeking a move. “I think everyone suspects that Jack is going through some sort of life change. The grapevine is he’s leaving Canberra and the Dolphins is the club that everyone is talking about,” Read added.

Wighton would have been in Origin selection contention considering his track record in the game's biggest arena. And Blues selector Alexander's surprise at his retirement summed up the disappointment.

"Jack spoke to Freddy and has told him of his disappointing decision to retire from representative football,” Alexander told The Sydney Morning Herald.

“He has said that he wants to focus on family and club footy. It’s a blow for us. He has been an important part of our squad for the last five years and would have been in the mix again. We’ve loved having Jack in camp and in the team.

“He’s an Origin player. He’s been a great player not only for NSW, but for Australia and the Indigenous All Stars. It’s disappointing he won’t be able to be part of this series.”

Wighton's representative retirement comes as the five-eighth reportedly told Canberra he wants to explore his options on the open market. Wighton is a one-club player and has been at Canberra for 14 years.

While this doesn't mean Wighton will leave the club, it could attract lucrative offers from rival clubs. CEO Don Furner acknowledged it could be the five-eighth's last big contract and encouraged him to consider his options.

However, Furner said they would do everything to keep him. "Jack has been incredibly loyal to the Raiders over 14 seasons and never tested himself on the market, he has always committed to this club," Furner told AAP.

"Jack has a very young family, and this could be his last contract, so he should make sure he is absolutely 100 per cent comfortable with his decision. The Raiders will do whatever we can to keep Jack a one-club player and will continue to talk to his management about a package to retain him."

Wighton has reportedly been offered around $1 million to stay at the club on a multi-year deal.

Sign up to our newsletter and score the biggest sport stories of the week.