Christine McGuinness showed off her toned figure as she performed an impressive handstand in a new Instagram post on Tuesday.

The model, 35, flaunted her abs in a skimpy black sports bra and tight lilac leggings as she promoted a sportswear brand.

She expertly performed the handstand showcasing her upper body strength in the social media clip.

For another look she changed into a beige sports bra which she styled with the figure-hugging leggings and a nude blazer and black cap.

She wore her honey tresses in loose waves over her shoulders and opted for a natural makeup look to show off her pretty features.

Her third and final look was a beige duo as she worked at her desk to show the different parts of the day and the versatility of the sportswear.

It comes after earlier this month Christine  opened up on her unusual living arrangement with her ex-husband Paddy McGuinness, admitting 'I don't know life without him'.

The beauty and the presenter, 49, announced their split in June of last year, after 11 years of marriage and three children.

However, they have revealed they have remained living together with their kids in an effort to protect them.

Talking to OK! magazine, Christine spoke about the arrangement, saying she didn't know how long it would last.

She said: 'It's certainly not a long-term or forever plan. It works right now because we're both so busy and we're in and out of the home so we tend to swap days and we'll share.

'It's much like any parent really – juggling jobs and children. We definitely don't want to upset them or change anything too quickly, and for me as well.

'I like slow changes, and we're alright – we're family. I've known Paddy for 15 years, so I don't know life without him. It is what it is.'

She added: 'He's happy that I've found a place I'm comfortable in. He was very proud of my book and my documentary. He watched it and he loved it, and said he was really pleased that not only was I working but I was making a big difference as well.

'It's good he's supportive because I need him to be. I need to be able to leave happily knowing the children are being looked after and safe. It's partnership and teamwork.'

It comes after Christine appeared on The Jeremy Vine Show last week, and discussed living with Paddy.

Christine said: ''It's been absolutely fine, I don't know any different than to live with him. I can't remember not living with him, I've been with him since I was 19 years old.

'We want to do what's best for the children, it's certainly not a long term plan. But for right now we don't feel like anything needs to change frankly for me and for the children. I think slow change is better.

'It works well, we're both in and out the house quite often with work, we've both got busy schedules so it doesn't make sense for us to rush into separate houses anytime soon. For as long as the kids are happy we're happy.'

Paddy and Christine have three children together, twins Penelope, and Leo, nine, and Felicity, six.

It came after Christine candidly touched on her family dynamic as she described embracing their differences.

Continuing to live together for the sake of their children, Christine and television presenter Paddy have been open about their co-parenting dynamic in the house.

And talking on Heart FM's No Filter this week, Christine explained: 'We're not actually like any other family I know'.

She insisted she doesn't compare herself to anyone else, with the TV personality also touching on her autism diagnosis and how that ties in with motherhood.

'I love the way we are, I try not to compare myself to any other family because we're actually not like any other family that I know,' explained Christine to Heart.

She continued: 'So, I'm comfortable and I embrace our family the way we are, and I love our differences.

'Each and every family is unique anyway but ours is just one that I've never seen on any social media platform before and I'm quite proud of that.

'I love us, I love the way we are,' she finished.

Christine split from husband of 11 years Paddy in 2022, with the pair still living in their home to keep things as 'normal as possible' for their three children, who are unaware of the break-up.

Her new show, Unmasking My Autism, shares insight and detail into her life since being diagnosed with the developmental disability in 2021.

And sharing details during the interview with Heart, she explained: 'It's a positive thing that I'm autistic and my three children are because we understand each other so much more.

'It's a blessing and I love it. I know when to give them a time out and I know they're not being difficult.'

Paddy and Christine took to Instagram to confirm their separation last year, revealing they would continue living together for the sake of their three autistic children.

In a joint statement, they wrote: 'We hadn't planned on sharing this publicly until we were ready but after the lack of privacy surrounding our personal life, we feel left with no other option but to clarify.

'A while ago we took the difficult decision to separate but our main focus as always is to continue loving and supporting our children.

'This was not an easy decision to make but we're moving forward as the best parents we can be for our three beautiful children. We'll always be a loving family, we still have a great relationship and still live happily in our family home together.

'We hope this now draws a line under anymore unwanted and unnecessary intrusion into our private life.

'Although we work in the public eye we ask kindly if you could respect our wishes for privacy on this matter. We'll be making no further comment.'