Click here to become a Premium member of Jobzilla and gain exclusive access to international jobs that will sponsor your visa abroad.

Jobs

Heroshe was founded in 2012 to tackle the shopping, payment and shipping challenges non-US individuals and businesses face when shopping in the US. We’re providing cost-effective shopping, payment  and shipping services that allow the seamless flow of e-commerce across borders without constraints. Heroshe is currently solving this problem for individuals and businesses in Nigeria. Heroshe is on a mission to improve lives by opening up access to global commerce. Our vision is to remove barriers to affordable quality products everywhere. We will become a global cross-border e-commerce logistics leader by doing this. We’re looking for the right people to join us on this mission. We're proud of the company we’ve built. Our people are our biggest differentiating factor and we’ll continue investing in our people and our customer delight culture.

We are recruiting to fill the position below:

As a Software Engineering Manager, you’ll join our growing team of Product and Technology professionals who share a passion for leveraging technology to empower cross border logistics across the world.

The Opportunity (What You Will Be Doing)

Leadership:

Be the leader who your team looks up to. Improve processes to make your team more effective. Develop knowledge and domain expertise.

Take ownership of what you and the team build and coordinate efforts across the team to ensure efficient completion of tasks.

Eliminate obstacles that prevent your team from performing optimally.

Actively seek to build a great team. Ensure effective recruitment, training and development programs are adopted to promote productivity, retention, motivation and morale.

Manage the career path and goals of your team members, conducting regular 1-on-1s and having monthly performance dialogues. Review candidate profiles and conduct interviews.

Plan and execute long term strategies that benefit the team and their product(s). Work with a Product Manager and Tech Lead to ensure that the roadmap is realistic and clearly understood by the team.

Take ownership of the progress, costs, and quality of delivering engineering outcomes. Adopt, enforce, and contribute to the agile processes that define Heroshe’s way of working to deliver multiple product releases at scale.

Own and refine the processes that your team uses to build and support products within the business.

Build a deep understanding of how our products work and are built.

Though you will not be expected to code regularly you need to grasp code and architecture concerns. Identify and track metrics that can be used to ensure objectives are met and recommend process improvements.

Understand engineering metrics and seek to improve them.

7+ years of software development or technical product management experience with the full software development life-cycle: design, coding, testing, mocking, deployment and maintenance of software to real production environments;

Proficiency with tools of the product and engineering trade such as Issue Tracking, Wikis, Diagramming, Roadmapping, Project Management, CI/CD, etc.

The ability to align people behind a common goal. You can explain and materialize objectives of the team;

Working knowledge of large-scale service-oriented infrastructure and the design of scalable, highly available systems in the real world.

3+ years as a manager with people management responsibilities and a track record of hiring and growing a talented team of engineers;

Experience working with Agile methodologies, Scrum and demonstrated experience in managing end-to-end software development lifecycles.

How to Apply

Interested and qualified candidates should:

Click here to apply

Click here to become a Premium member of Jobzilla and gain exclusive access to international jobs that will sponsor your visa abroad.

Do you need help applying for a job or other opportunities?

Our seasoned professionals will help you fill and complete difficult applications, create outstanding CVs/Cover letters or other documents that will win you interview invitations!

Information Technology (IT) Assistant at the U. S. Embassy

Vacancies at the Nigerian College of Forensics and Fraud Investigators