Electric motorcycle manufacturer Ultraviolette recently announced the grand opening of its futuristic global experience centre -

The Ultraviolette Hangar in Bengaluru. This one-of-a-kind, 10,000 sq.ft experience centre will serve as the EV maker's flagship retail touchpoint in India.

According to Ultraviolette, the newly opened Ultraviolette Hangar creates a

highly immersive experience for its customers and tech enthusiasts by bringing forth the deeply rooted aviation DNA of the company.

One of the stand-out attractions at the Ultraviolette Hangar is its flight-simulator technology that promises to offer a

thrilling experience to its visitors, which according to the company brings customers closer to the brand's DNA.

It is also worth mentioning that the 10,000 sq.ft experience centre also comes equipped with industry-first technologies such as interactive displays and virtual and augmented reality zones, which gives customers an immersive environment that further augments Ultraviolette's innovations and design philosophy of the F77.

In addition to these facilities, the Ultraviolette Hangar also houses dedicated spaces for an exclusive range of performance gear, accessories and branded merchandise, which is accompanied by a

uniquely designed UV Cafe inside the experience centre -

Enabling visitors to better engage with the brand.

That being said, Ultraviolette also commenced the deliveries of its top-spec F77 Limited Edition electric motorcycle and according to the company, all 77 units of the F77 Limited Edition electric motorcycle variant were sold out in just two hours following the opening of bookings back in November 2022.

In terms of pricing, the Ultraviolette F77 electric motorcycle range starts from Rs 3.80 lakh (ex-showroom, Bangalore) and this electric motorcycle is currently available in two variants -

The F77 Original and the F77 Recon. Furthermore, bookings for the Ultraviolette F77 electric motorcycles are currently open at Ultraviolette's official website.

Ultraviolette is among the most-awaited electric motorcycles in India and when it was launched the pricing seemed a

bit out of reach for most customers. However, the motorcycle justifies its price tag with a

host of features and blistering performance.