Home

Auto

Photos

Tata Altroz Icng With Dual Cylinders To Offer More Boot Space For Luggage

Tata Altroz iCNG to launch soon. Check what is new

Tata Motors has opened bookings for the CNG version of the Altroz premium hatchback. The deliveries of the Altroz iCNG will start from May.

Tata Motors has officially introduced the CNG version of its premium hatchback Altroz on Wednesday, April 19. The carmaker has initiated booking procedure for the Altroz CNG at a token amount of 21,000. Tata will announce the price of its latest CNG model later and will start its delivery by May.

Tata Altroz CNG versions will be available in four variants, which include the XE, XM+, XZ and XZ+. The car will be available in four exterior colour options including Opera Blue, Arcade Grey, Avenue White and Downtown Red seen in this image.

Tata Altroz with iCNG technology was first showcased at the Auto Expo 2023 in January this year. The model was showcased along with the Punch CNG version, which is expected to be launched at a later date.

Tata Motors will introduce its twin-cylinder CNG technology for the first time with Altroz. The CNG kit includes two cylinders of 30 litres each placed lower in the boot space. To accomodate the cylinders, Tata has removed the spare wheel from here.

The new technology helps to open up more pace for luggage in the boot space which, conventionally, is occupied by CNG cylinder and barely any space for bags. Tigor and Tiago, the other two CNG vehicles from Tata Motors, do not offer this convenience.

Tata Motors says that Altroz CNG will offer over 300 litres of boot space despite the CNG kit. The Altroz CNG will go up against rivals such as Maruti Suzuki Baleno and Toyota Glanza CNG versions when launched.

The cabin of the Altroz CNG remains largely the same. The only difference is the CNG mode button to switch between regular petrol mode. It will also offer the feature to start the engine in CNG mode, something the carmaker had introduced in Tigor and Tiago CNG models earlier.

Best time to buy CNG vehicles? Here are 5 most affordable options

Britain has a problem - stoned drivers! One in 10 admit to dope driving

This EV manufacturer is offering chance to win Thailand trip for potential buyer

Involve Your Senses One Musk Organic Car Perfume Bar, Involve Your Senses Strong Fiber Air Freshener to Freshen'up Your Car - IONE01-40 g Car Accessories interior car perfumes and fresheners

Ather introduces Pro Pack for 450X electric scooter: What does it offer?

This modified Royal Enfield Classic 500 will impress with its stance and attitude

Nissan GT-R R34 Skyline driven by Paul Walker in Fast & Furious is up for auction

Tata Altroz iCNG with dual cylinders to offer more boot space for luggage

In pics: Harley-Davidson X 500 is here to rival Royal Enfield Interceptor 650

Uttar Pradesh aims to be first state to deploy only EVs for govt departments

Please provide your details to get Personalized Offers on

By clicking "View Offers" you Agree to our

Couldn't verify the OTP.

It's either expired or it's incorrect.