12 things Tunbridge Wells residents will know if they've lived there for years

From old car parks and cafes, to a dangerous chair race and controversial Boxing Day hunt - take a trip down memory lane

Sign up to our daily newsletter for all the latest Kent stories and breaking news delivered straight to your inbox. Something went wrong, please try again later. Thank you for subscribing!We have more newslettersThere is so much to remember about Tunbridge Wells - shops, people, places, pubs. And everyone enjoys recalling things from the past.  Tunbridge Wells is lucky enough to have some great social media groups, where people share fascinating old pictures and memories of the town and its people. It also has excellent historical societies, and other groups, such at the Royal Tunbridge Wells Civic Society.  These help keep our history firmly recorded, which is not only enjoyed by us, but will be by future generations. Below is a light-hearted snapshot of things you may remember in Tunbridge Wells, which stretch back decades.  Read more: The lost Tunbridge Wells pubs which hold so many great memories

This picture taken in the 1980s was shared by Dr Ian Beavis of Tunbridge Wells Museum and Art Gallery and he points out the original guardian deities were replaced by gold painted ones from a local antique shop

Hanging from an ornate stand, it was in full view of the bandstand which also once stood in the park. The bronze bell, a well-known feature, stood in the rose garden from 1935. It was stolen in the mid 1960s. One year later it was mysteriously returned to the site and the police investigation never solved. It may have been a prank. Since 1991 it has been permanently displayed in the council chamber foyer of the Town Hall.

The sign for Casa Fina can be seen on the left in this picture.

This china shop stocked mostly beautiful china from Italy. Much of the decorative china and ornaments were white, but some featured colourful fruits and doves. The china was very different to English styles, and the shop was full of elegant pieces, from umbrella stands, to beautiful shell plates.  People in Tunbridge Wells still say they have pieces at home. Casa Fina also provided a little escapism, as people could dream they lived in an elegant Italian home as they wandered around the split level shop.  3. The A. A. Cundell garage and filling station on Crescent Road  You could pull in here, just before the Calverley Hotel, which is now Hotel du Vin, and an attendant would fill up your car from one of several free standing pumps, and take your money. It served Shell fuel and featured a sign reading "Shellubrication".  4. Car park behind the ABC cinema There used to be a man in a small kiosk in the centre of the car park, who would take your money. He was short of stature and friendly. There was no phone app in those days to fiddle around with. It was service with a friendly word.   Tunbridge Wells Carnival was run by John Joiner and his small committee from 1970 to 1990. Speldhurst Round Table then took over the reins until 1996 when the Lions stepped in to help out.  In its heyday, it wasn't just a sparse collection of rubbish floats of companies selling double glazing or garden sheds. It was locals dressing up in anything they could get their hands on along with groups such as Tunbridge Wells Sea Cadets. And the people not taking part could be found lining the streets, hanging out of a window or walking behind it.

Pat and Aurelio Alonzi of D'Ambrosio Milk Bar in Grosvenor Road in Tunbridge Wells

You could also buy an ice cream at the hatch to the left of the door. The coffee craze which has gripped Tunbridge Wells was many years away, so it was down to D'Ambrosio for a cup of tea, an ice cream float or a hot chocolate. Even the hot buttered toast was fantastic. Many youngsters skived from school and headed to the seating at the back of the cafe, where smoking was still allowed.   This was a very popular cafe on the corner of Grosvenor Road. Some customers have joked it was their "second home". Coke floats were a big seller, which were ice cream floating in cola. 8. Zona's patisserie and restaurant - again, this was in Grosvenor Road and it had a restaurant upstairs, where they did everything from fried breakfasts, to Danish pastries. They also sold fantastic filled baguettes.   Don't be fooled by the genteel sounding event - this was fast and dirty and very dangerous. Competitors charged at high speed up The Pantiles carrying the chair with someone in it. And the crowds absolutely loved it.  It was not unusual for teams to trip and the whole group take a tumble. And people really, really wanted to win. Tunbridge Wells at its best.  The Sedan Chair Race was held every August bank holiday, at a cost to Tunbridge Wells Borough Council in 2004 of a whopping £5,000. Council reports from that time show "traders wanted more added to the event". Sadly, the event was cancelled the following year.

The figure of Mercury balanced on tiptoe on The Opera House. The date of the picture is unknown but the figure is sadly no longer there.

Floating above the top-of-the-town skyline like giant balloons, the Opera House domes have been a feature of life in Tunbridge Wells since it opened back in 1902. The name signalled a high-class venue and, although it was always more music hall than opera and would move into the next century as a pub, the grandeur of its design remains, both inside and out.

The missing statue can just be seen at the top of the black and white photograph in our Kent and Sussex Courier article

The Opera House marked its 20th anniversary as a JD Wetherspoon pub last year but there is a mystery about this building which has never been solved: what happened to the life-size statue of Mercury which once topped the main dome? Balanced precariously on tiptoe, the fragile figure looked as though it could fly away at any moment – and eventually it did.

The beautiful dome which is one of the most recognisable landmarks in Tunbridge Wells - but minus our tiptoeing Mercury

Or at least, suddenly it was no longer there. Later pictures of the Opera House dome show a simple ball decoration on top. The mystery of the missing statue remains. According to Tunbridge Wells Museum, it was removed during the 1920s “for reasons that remain obscure”. It has since disappeared.    This would be a controversial event now, but every Boxing Day, the hunt would gather on the Lower Cricket Ground on Tunbridge Wells Common. Whatever your views on hunting, this was then a popular event and a staple of the Christmas calendar for many.  Crowds gathered to see the spectacle of hounds and horses. It was an unusual meet in that it was so close to a town centre.

If you managed to get past the bouncers at Chez Moi you rushed inside - and just hoped your mates got in too

You had to be a mountain goat to get up the steep narrow staircase - and then at the summit you'd come eyeball to eyeball with the owner in the kiosk who would decide in a split second whether you were coming in.  The place for many epic nights, it had a small dance floor with sofa seating up small steps on either side of the decks. It was previously The Tropicana.  Get more Tunbridge Wells news from KentLive straight to your inbox for free HERE. Let us know below your memories of Tunbridge Wells. Join the conversation with other Kent readers here   The 6 well-known and treasured things from Tunbridge Wells which have mysteriously vanished 6 ways Tunbridge Wells could make the most of being a spa town The favourite nightspots across Tunbridge Wells which are gone but many people will never forget 9 reasons why Gracelands in Tunbridge Wells was a night out you'd never forget The 99 things we love about Tunbridge Wells You can find this story in   My Bookmarks. Or by navigating to the user icon in the top right.