WHY DIDN'T THEY ASK EVANS?

Without all the great telly, this winter would have felt even more epic, so thanks to both terrestrial and streaming services for gifting us some incredibly memorable viewing already this year.

However, whether or not your tastes ran to The Gold, Happy Valley, The Last Of Us or Daisy Jones & The Six (to pick just four), sometimes we all just need what I describe as 'switch-on-and-switch-off' TV – effectively, an emotional duvet-in-visual-form that makes you forget all about your worries and your strife (and yes, maybe has you humming The Bare Necessities, too, while you're at it).

While Why Didn't They Ask Evans? probably isn't a 'first-class' Agatha Christie novel, ITV's Easter three-parter (first aired on BritBox last year) turned out to be just the ticket, a perfectly soothing period piece that was not only beautiful to look at but so bouncily written by Hugh Laurie that even throwaway lines of dialogue between the two young leads sounded like the lyrics to a hit 1930s showtune:

Laurie not only made the story his own but he directed it – with wit, vim, vigour and perhaps a dash of Angostura bitters, too.

So what if, on closer inspection, the plot's net was chock-full of red herrings and holes big enough for a great white shark to slip through?

With guest-star spots from Jim Broadbent, Emma Thompson, Paul Whitehouse and Laurie himself (and the rest of a fine cast looking as though they were having a great time, too), every unlikely twist felt infinitely more plausible than it probably ought to have done.

Indeed, by the end, even the who? element of the dunnit turned out not to matter very much – nearly everybody had been implicated at some point – but of course we wanted to find out whoreallydiddunnit: who pushed poor old Alex Pritchard over the cliff? And who was Pritchard anyway?

Instead of Poirot or Marple, Christie created a pair of engaging young amateur sleuths for Evans – vicar's son Bobby Jones (Will Poulter, sporting a not-very-1930s Marvel Universe-style set of guns) and Lady 'Frankie' Derwent (delicious Lucy Boynton), childhood friends who discover a more grown-up spark in their twenties. These two have so much fun you'll wish Christie had written more Jones & Derwent novels.

As we emerge into spring still blinking and shivering, this slice of 'stands the church clock at ten to three? And is there honey still for tea?' escapist nostalgia – TV as cake, basically – turned out to be exactly what this doctor ordered. Mind you, this is Agatha Christie, so who knows whether you can trust the doctor…

Amazon Prime has followed Daisy Jones & The Six (its hit about the romantic travails of a glamorous, fictional-ish 70s rock band) with another adaptation, though this one's less upscale chick-lit, far more contemporary and challenging.

Based on Naomi Alderman's critically acclaimed 2016 novel, The Power's premise is that young women worldwide start to create electricity within their own bodies. Both terrifying and thrilling, its potency is also immediately obvious: women now have a physical strength that soon outstrips men's own.

If Women Ruled The World is, of course, an exciting and potentially daunting premise for a TV show so there's a lot to work, and play, with here, both literally and metaphorically.

We hop around the globe getting to know the main characters in a large cast, which feels a bit chaotic until about episode three. Toni Collette is the biggest name, playing the Mayor of Seattle whose angsty daughter has The Power, while elsewhere we have an Eastern European dictator's wife with designs on the top job, the daughter of a London gangster looking to avenge the murder of her mum, a (male) Nigerian journalist who wants to tell the story and, back in the US, a girl who kills her abusive foster father and looks set to become a – if not the – leader of women.

While the novel was clever and thought-provoking, so far the TV show feels like a dystopia-in-waiting. Sorry, sisters, but right now (I've not yet seen the whole season) a happy-ever-after ending feels far from guaranteed.

With typical generosity, the late Paul O'Grady left behind a new series – the 11th – of his multi-award-winning For The Love Of Dogs (Thursdays, ITV1 and ITVX).

Set in Battersea Dogs And Cats Home (Paul was an ambassador for the charity), the first episode introduced us to a terrified bichon frise, while Paul fell head-over-heels for a giant Newfoundland in need of major surgery. If you see it on catch-up, be sure to have some man-sized hankies to hand.

Makeover shows: 40 per cent chat, 40 per cent builders, 20 per cent big shiny finale reveal, right? Wrong.

Project Home (Friday, Ch4), presented by Nick Grimshaw and property expert Kunle Barker, magics homeowners inside a virtual 'set' of their potential dream home (how do they do that?).

So, with some built-in jeopardy (the couple's separate design ideas are pitched against each other), we end up with an 80 per cent-20 per cent hybrid: Virtual Interior Design v Lush Real Life 'show home'. It's a makeover show with designer knobs on, but fans of the genre may feel it lacks a bit of a heart.