If you want to see DML NEWS APP articles without ads, click here.

As the most reliable and balanced news aggregation service on the internet, DML News App offers the following information published by Fox News:

Electric bicycles, which environmentalists and Democratic lawmakers have touted for their zero-carbon output, are facing increased criticism over the rising number of tragic incidents involving their batteries.

According to the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), so-called e-bikes are powered by lithium-ion batteries which are prone to fires or explosions. And as e-bikes continue to become more popular — the global e-bike industry is expected to grow nearly 200% to an estimated value of $118.7 billion by 2030, according to Allied Market Research — more cities nationwide are facing rapidly-increasing numbers of battery fires.

“The majority of lithium-ion battery fires that fire departments across the country are dealing with involve these micromobility devices,” Matthew Paiss, a technical advisor in the Battery Materials & Systems group of the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, told the NFPA Journal last year.

“With something like an electric vehicle fire, you may be able to let it burn on the side of the road. With these, though, they may be in homes and high-rises, so fire departments have to engage. It’s a problem we need to address,” he said.

According to the New York Fire Department (FDNY), in 2022, e-bikes were responsible for roughly 220 fires, which is up over 100% year-over-year, and six deaths.

During a public safety in February, New York City Fire Commissioner Laura Kavanagh said, “These are incredibly dangerous devices if they are unregulated or used improperly. They show an enormous amount of fire when they catch fire, they often present an immediate inability to exit one’s room or one’s apartment or one’s home.”

“We’re going to come at this from every angle of enforcement, but also want to do community outreach and will be in every community working with every stakeholder,” Kavanagh continued.

FDNY tweeted, “We had a terrible tragedy here today. A fire started on the first floor in the vestibule. The cause of the fire was an e-bike – said Chief of Department Hodgens from the scene of a 2-alarm fire which killed two people in Queens this afternoon.”

We had a terrible tragedy here today. A fire started on the first floor in the vestibule. The cause of the fire was an e-bike – said Chief of Department Hodgens from the scene of a 2-alarm fire which killed two people in Queens this afternoon. Read more: https://t.co/xjdPl7NZFx pic.twitter.com/SWA2nEXskR

To get more information about this article, please visit Fox News.

The Dennis Michael Lynch Podcast is available below. Never miss an episode. Subscribe to the show by downloading The DML News App or go to Apple Podcasts.