From Australia’s first no-tools cot to a compact version of the popular Nook sofas (perfect for small spaces), as well as fabulous new bed linen, there’s plenty to be excited about on the kids’ interior scene this month.

Koala Kookaburra cot: Incredibly, this cleverly design cot comes together in under 10 minutes without tools. Australia’s first tool-free cot, the timber design has two mattress heights; there’s a high and low setting depending on the age of your child. Made from FSC certified beech and plywood, the design also meets the Red Nose Australia Safer Sleep criteria. $799.

Kip & Co bed linen: The latest line-up of children’s bedding from Kip & Co is characteristically statement-making. The ‘Neptune’s Kingdom’ design features an army of mermen and mermaids (so cute, so kitsch!) while the ‘Swan Lake’ design features glorious illustrated swans on a lilac purple base with plain purple reverse. Another highlight is the ‘Flowerhead’ quilted design which features a bold black posy floral print. From $40.

NooK Junior: An expansion of the popular MyNook sofa range, Nook Junior takes the original award-winning concept and makes it 25% smaller; its compact footprint makes it ideal for apartments or smaller bedroom spaces. Available in an array of colours, the launch also comes with a selection of popular NooK extensions in junior form; there’s the Junior Wedge Tail, Junior Arch and the Junior Lily Pad foam beanbag. Australian-made, the NooK Junior starts from $395.

Fleur Harris X Adairs Adventureland range: Fleur Harris is back with an Adairs collaboration that is emblazoned with all the things that little boys love. Dinosaurs, cars, boats, hot air balloons and anchors are just some of the beautifully illustrated things to discover within the unique design. The collection includes bedding, a flip-out sofa, teepee and artwork. From $99.99.

IZIMINI baby chair: Perfect for outdoorsy fun, this portable and lightweight baby chair comes in nine gorgeous prints and is suitable for children from 6 months old to 15 kilograms. The chair is perfect for beach days, camping trips, picnics at the park, or simply hanging in the backyard. The chair has a built-in harness, is easy to clean (the fabric can be wiped with a damp cloth or machine washed) and has a storage pocket too. You can even separately purchase a matching IZIMINI hat too. $85.