LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA: Ben Affleck is now known as one of the biggest stars the industry has produced, but he did not always perform at his best; in his own words, he was pretty bad. Affleck revealed recently that in one of his first one-line cameo roles in 1992's 'Buffy the Vampire Slayer,' he was so bad that the director had to re-do his voice using a different actor.

However, four decades later, the actor is known to be one of the most established actors in the industry, with his recent release 'Air,' which he directed as well as starred in, receiving positive feedback from critics and the audience. Some have speculated that the film may be nominated for Academy Awards as well. The film is important evidence that the fresh approach to business he and Matt Damon are instituting through their Artists Equity production company is sustainable. The movie also stars Jason Bateman, Chris Messina, Matthew Maher, Marlon Wayans, Chris Tucker, Viola Davis, Gustaf Skarsgard, and Julius Tennon.

'The Flash' : Ben Affleck spills the beans about Gal Gadot's cameo as Wonder Woman

'Doesn't make me feel good': Jennifer Garner says she works 'hard' not to read about ex Ben Affleck

Ben Affleck did appear on 'The Late Late Show with James Corden' and was asked whether he'd ever been 'cut' from a project during his career. The actor joked that he'd been fired from multiple roles as a teenager due to his tardiness problem. He also recalled the time he had recently moved to Los Angeles and was cast as a basketball player in 1992's 'Buffy the Vampire Slayer,' in "the opus that inspired" the tv show of the same name, starring Sarah Michelle Geller as the titular teenage heroine. Kristy Swanson portrayed the title character in the film.

Affleck revealed that he only had one line of dialogue in the film, which takes place during a basketball game scene in which a werewolf or a vampire reaches him on the court and his character cowardly hands him the ball. He had to say, 'Take The Ball,' and the actor assumed he did a pretty good job and felt genuinely afraid, adding that he was asked to run the scene several times and clarified that the director, Fran Rubel Kuzui, was very strict.

Affleck found out after he went to the theatre to watch the movie with his friend and realized that his voice sounds different. He said, "I went and saw the movie with some friends. And I sounded very different." He continued: "And I realized right then that they rerecorded my lines. It was so bad, they needed me to be in the scene but the director was just like, 'I can't hear the voice again!'"

Finally, the actor stated that the filmmaker had to pay another person to come in and dub the dialogue 'Hey, man, take it' because Ben Affleck supposedly couldn't say it convincingly enough. James Corden played the scene during the show and Ben said his voice sounds like Chris Tucker who stars in his recent movie 'Air'.

While the movie, 'Buffy the Vampire Slayer' only has a 36 per cent rating and a 43 per cent Audience Score on Rotten Tomatoes, many recognize it as a cult classic and was a moderate hit in theaters, grossing $16.6 million at the global box office on a $7 million budget.

‘Air’ is now playing in theaters.