Green has been a popular color in luxury watches in the past and today.

From Audemars Piguet Royal Oak Jumbo to Tissot PRX Quartz Mint, Bulova Heritage “Devil Diver,” and Citizen Promaster Diver Fugu Automatic, it appears that the watch industry has gone green.

And we can’t blame these watch manufacturers. Even though green is a more unexpected color, it is still a safe and stylish choice. If you’re among those watch enthusiasts looking for a more outdoor-inspired watch that is less obtrusive, the Rolex Kermit and Hulk make interesting choices.

Both watches are Submariners, and both are green. No wonder both Rolex models often get mixed up. So, today, we compare Rolex Kermit and Rolex Hulk and what gives them their investment potential.

Just like other Rolex watches, Kermit has an exemplary quality that lives up to the expectation. It has a stainless steel body that can handle loads of pressure in different circumstances and environments.

This watch was also in production for seven long years before the brand discontinued it in 2010. Around the same time, they introduced the 116610LV model, which received the nickname Hulk.

The Hulk has an impressive new green dial with a Cerachrome bezel. The ceramic material in the watch also made the green slightly different from Kermit’s. If Kermit has that glossy emerald green, the Hulk’s bezel is deeper.

Rolex likewise used a new maxi case and squared-off lugs. Plus, it upgraded the watch’s movement and bracelet.

In 2020, a new line of Submariner was released with a subtle upgrade to the popular Hulk. They are almost identical, with the same green bezel and oyster bracelet. However, when you look closer, the Rolex Submariner Ref. 126610LV has a flashier look.

The rotatable bezel is the main functionality of this watch. Its 60-minute graduations allow the diver or wearer to safely and accurately monitor decompressions tops and diving time. Additionally, it is manufactured from a corrosion-resistant and hard ceramic. Its bezel insert is virtually scratchproof.

Rolex Kermit and Hulk are made with the same material that can withstand extreme conditions without getting easily damaged or rusted. They are on almost equal footing. But for a better appreciation of which one to buy, here are their differences at a glance.

Kermit, Hulk, and Hulk II. All three greens come with 300m (1,000 ft.) water resistance, a screw-down crown, screw-in case back and are capable of watersports. The difference lies in the style, size, power reserve, and movement.

Historically, Rolex introduced the Submariner sports watch designed for diving in 1954. Over the years, Rolex added some color to the precious metal variations of the Submariner model.

However, it was the first time Swiss watch designers used green when they introduced the Kermit Submariner 16610LV in 2003. It was to mark the Submariner’s 50th anniversary, despite the model being released 49 years after its first debut.

The watch model was an instant hit to Rolex fans and watch enthusiasts in general because of its wonderful green bezel. It is also a design never seen before in the Submariner’s history. Due to its slim profile and impressive feel on the wrist, it became admired by many. The nickname “Kermit” later followed.

Green is not just a color of affluence; it’s also the color of the Muppet character, Kermit the Frog. Don’t worry; naming it as such didn’t reflect negative feelings toward the timepiece. It’s just that Rolex collectors usually assign comical names to watches, like Bart Simpson, the Great White, Hulk, and Batman.

That said, the Rolex Kermit was well-received by the watch community. The “LV” in the Submariner 16610LV means green bezel (lunette verte). It is a way for Rolex to make something memorable for such a momentous occasion without departing too much from their tracks.

In 2010, Rolex released the Submariner 116610LV Hulk with a similar 40mm MAXI case as the Sub 116610LN Date. Of course, it comes with a few updates to the Kermit, including the platinum inserts in its green ceramic bezel.

Such a material was called the scratch-resistant Cerachrom, unlike 16610LV’s aluminum bezel. Still, the Hulk uses the same calibre automatic movement as the Kermit.

The Rolex Submariner 116610LV Hulk is powered by caliber 3135, a certified Chronometer with 31 jewels. The rotor that powers the Hulk’s movement is bidirectional. When fully wounded, the caliber 3135 has a power reserve of 48 hours. It also displays the date at 3 o’clock, a date, minutes, hours, and center seconds.

A large number of watches from Rolex use the same caliber 3135. In fact, there’s a high chance that if a Rolex has a date function, the movement powers it.

The green dial and hands of the Rolex Hulk were upgraded to include the Chronalight material, something that’s not used in the Kermit. The Chronalight is a luminous material with a blue glow when exposed to sunlight instead of the usual green glow in the previous models.

In addition, Rolex improved the bracelet of the Submariner Hulk. It is now fitted with an oyster bracelet with an extension system and an internal glide-lock clasp. Nevertheless, it is similar to the previous model regarding the engraved inner rehaut and the serial number at the six o’clock position.

The green color in the dial is more prominent on the Hulk than on the Kermit. The Hulk’s dial has that sunburst finish, similar to the blue dial fitted to the yellow-gold and two-tone version of Rolex Submariners.

Meanwhile, Rolex Kermit features an aluminum material in the bezel insert, while the Hulk switches to Cerachrom or ceramic. The one used in Rolex Hulk is preferred because it is impervious to fading and corrosion and is highly scratch resistant as well.

The Kermit classic submariner features an Oyster case made using stainless steel. This material adds strength to the case, so it can withstand pressure when exposed to various environments and all sorts of activities.

Kermit’s bezel doesn’t disappoint, either. It has a beautiful emerald green color with 60-minute marks made using aluminum, meaning it’s durable. Likewise, it has a luminous marker (Super LumiNova), so it’s easy to read the time, even when you’re in a dark environment or deep sea diving. The best part is that this luminous marker is non-radioactive and non-toxic.

The Hulk Submariner is also durable, as it comes with a solid stainless steel build that allows it to handle pressure. Its material keeps it from scratching too easily and rusting when used in extremely humid conditions or underwater.

Hulk’s bezel is made of Cerachrom ceramic material. Appearance-wise, it’s a dark green with 60 digits, representing the minutes. Further, it’s a more impressive luminous marker (Chroma light), which is easier to see, lasts longer and is stronger than the Super LumiNova. Just like Kermit’s luminous marker, it is also non-toxic and non-radioactive.

Adrian Barker compared Kermit and the Rolex Submariner Hulk and highlighted the new 2020 Kermit. He said, “Green sounds like an odd color to have on a watch. When you buy a watch, you often think of it [as] being versatile and being able to wear it with lots of outfits. [With the Kermit,] the green is very subtle. It’s not that eye-catching. The Hulk, on the other hand, has that big shiny green dial. [It] is more eye-catching.”

Emkwan, on the other hand, purchased the 2020 Submariner 126610LV. “The glide lock clasp is absolutely stunning. It gives you such an accurate amount of micro-adjustment, particularly on the go. [It] is pretty incredible… [On the wrist,] it feels incredibly amazing. Its green with a black [color] pops in a different way to the previous generation 16610LV. That’s one of its differences. It has a black dial as opposed to the previous generation’s green sunburst style.”

In a survey of which is the best green Submariner between Kermit or Hulk, one Reddit user wrote, “[I] prefer the green on the bezel. Kermit’s the one for me.” Another answered, “Hulk. [Its] ceramic is awesome. [It also comes with a] glide lock.” Another agreed by saying that although Kermit’s dial looks better, the newer model is better built.

One user asked, “If you could only keep one, which one would be more of a classic?” “I would love a green Hulk dial with a black ceramic bezel. I don’t dig the milky green ceramic color,” one answered.

Another forum member said, “I prefer the Kermit, not the new LV. The new LV does look big, but not chunkier like the Hulk.”

Rolex Kermit features a bright green bezel and a classic matte black dial to match the range’s heritage. Hulk’s dial, conversely, is very green, which matches its bright green bezel.

Another big difference between the two models is that the original Kermit features an aluminum bezel. In contrast, the Hulk features a Cerachrom bezel. The aluminum bezel isn’t bad and has served many Rolexes well for decades. But when compared to the Cerachrom material, they don’t perform as well.

It was discontinued in 2010, giving way to another green Rolex Sub–the Hulk.

The Rolex Kermit is so expensive because of the materials used, its colorful accents, its rarity in the market, and its commemorative status than other Rolexes. It even commands a higher pre-owned value.

It combines aesthetic appeal (the dial is so beautiful), functionality, and wearability that the watch collectors and enthusiasts fear would be discontinued. Some say you must own one to understand why it’s a special watch.

No, Rolex Kermit is not the same as Rolex Starbucks, as the latter is Rolex Submariner Ref. 126610LV. It gained its name as Rolex Starbucks because of its green and black color that looks like the logo of the popular coffee chain.

Both of these Submariner models feature the color green. As to which one you should buy, the short answer is–it depends.

Ultimately, the right Rolex watch for you comes down to the shade of green you prefer. If you opt for a lighter, lime-green tone color, go for Kermit. If you prefer a deeper and dark green green, choose the Rolex Hulk watch.

Regardless of your choice, you can spice up your wardrobe with these verdant baskets of goodness.

Ready to find your ideal Rolex? Discover some of our Rolex reviews at EvesWatch.com.