Skip to main content

What are you looking for?

Established in 1951, IOM is the leading inter-governmental organization in the field of migration and works closely with governmental, intergovernmental and non-governmental partners. With 173-member states, a further 8 states holding observer status and offices in over 100 countries, IOM is dedicated to promoting humane and orderly migration for the benefit of all. It does so by providing services and advice to governments and migrants.

IOM recognizes that access to water and sanitation services, paired with hygiene promotion, is lifesaving in humanitarian contexts, while sustainable access to water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) services is also critical in the context of resolving displacement situations and building resilience to future shocks and stressors. The provision of WASH services is an important component of IOM operations worldwide.

In this context, IOM seeks to develop new tools, guidance and capacity building materials to ensure a harmonized approach to its WASH programs worldwide, tailored to the specificities of IOM programming and adapted to the changing environment of humanitarian practitioners.

The position will fall under the overall supervision of the IOM Global WASH Coordinator and direct supervision of the IOM WASH Officer. The successful candidate will support the Global WASH Unit in knowledge management, partnerships and capacity building projects.

Under the direct supervision of the WASH Officer of the department of operations and emergencies (DOE) at headquarters, and in liaison with Staff Development and Learning (SDL) unit, the successful candidate will develop the content and learning materials for the WASH induction training for new IOM recruits following the below steps:

In coordination with the DOE WASH Unit and WASH programs in priority countries, conduct a rapid survey to confirm the topics of the training sessions and time allocated to each session.

With support from DOE WASH team, conduct a mapping exercise of existing external guidance and trainings on WASH thematic and pre-select the most relevant ones in line with the agreed sessions.

Review existing WASH internal guidelines, position papers and select the ones in line with the agreed sessions in the WASH induction training for new IOM recruits.

*Deliverables for phase 1 (*worth 30% of the total consultancy).

Survey findings and presentation of detailed training sessions – submitted in week 4

Mapping of WASH related training material (internal and external) available first review – submitted at week 4

WASH training package outline and first drafts – submitted at week 4 (May 31, 2023),

Following the survey results and the IOM WASH strategic priorities, develop new guidance and position papers to be included in the training package.

Compile the material from phase 1 (mapping of WASH related training material) and phase 2 (step4) in a training package following the agreed sessions and time allocated. Then share with SDL unit who will create the script, story board, adapt to IOM language, and further adapt them to online format for e-learning.

*Deliverables for phase 2 (*worth 30% of the total consultancy).

Development of three position papers on IOM WASH strategic priorities and vision and two guidelines on IOM WASH operational procedures – submitted at week 8.

In coordination with the IOM WASH, support SDL unit in the creation of learning solutions for each session (i.e., videos, case studies, presentation slides, visuals, graph, courses test, etc.).

Attend regular meetings with SDL unit to review storyboards, scripts, prototype of learning solution until the eLearning courses are exported and tested in IOM’s learning management system.

Organize pilot testing of the training and collect feedback for further adjustments.

Deliverables for phase 3 (:

Development and final review of learning material with SDL unit for each session (videos, case studies, presentation slides, visuals, graph, courses test, etc.) – submitted at week 12

Result of the pilot test of the training modules – submitted at week 12

The consultancy is based on deliverables with deadlines of submission as indicated in each of the three phases and percentages indicating the payment milestones over the course of the project. The payment is subject to revision and final approval from the direct supervisor.

Master’s degree in civil engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Environmental Geosciences, Geology, hydrology or a related field from an accredited academic institution with two years of relevant professional experience; or

University degree in the above fields with four years of relevant professional experience.

Experience in the elaboration of content and learning materials in areas related to water, sanitation and hygiene.

Experience in the implementation of WASH activities in developing countries, preferably in countries facing humanitarian crises and in support of emergency responses.

Experience in coordinating activities with various stakeholders both at global level and in the field.

Knowledge and experience on innovative technology used for humanitarian and development works.

Excellent facilitation skills - Ability to convey and impart knowledge and messages to varied audiences in engaging, simple and clear manner.

Communication – listens and communicates clearly, adapting delivery to the audience

Planning and Organizing - plans work, anticipates risks, and sets goals within area of responsibility;

Teamwork – contributes to a collegial team environment; incorporates gender related needs, perspectives, concerns and promotes equal gender participation.

Creativity and Initiative – actively seeks new ways of improving programmes or services

Personal commitment, flexibility and ability to work effectively and harmoniously with colleagues from various cultures and professional backgrounds.

Candidate must be familiar with the UN system

Client Orientation – works effectively well with client and stakeholders

Continuous Learning – promotes continuous learning for self and others

Leadership and Negotiation – develops effective partnerships with internal and external stakeholders.

Fluency in English is required. Working knowledge in French Spanish and/or Arabic is an advantage.

Inclusion and respect for diversity: respects and promotes individual and cultural differences; encourages diversity and inclusion wherever possible.

Integrity and transparency: maintains high ethical standards and acts in a manner consistent with organizational principles/rules and standards of conduct

Professionalism: demonstrates ability to work in a composed, competent and committed manner and exercises careful judgment in meeting day-to-day challenges.

Teamwork: develops and promotes effective collaboration within and across units to achieve shared goals and optimize results.

Delivering results: produces and delivers quality results in a service-oriented and timely manner; is action-oriented and committed to achieving agreed outcomes.

Managing and sharing knowledge: continuously seeks to learn, share knowledge and innovate.

Accountability: takes ownership for achieving the Organization’s priorities and assumes responsibility for own action and delegated work.

Communication: encourages and contributes to clear and open communication; explains complex matters in an informative, inspiring and motivational way.

Leadership: provides a clear sense of direction, leads by example and demonstrates the ability to carry out the organization’s vision; assists others to realize and develop their potential.

Empowering others & building trust: creates an atmosphere of trust and an enabling environment where staff can contribute their best and develop their potential.

Strategic thinking and vision: works strategically to realize the Organization’s goals and communicates a clear strategic direction.

Interested candidates are invited to send their CV to washsupport@iom.int, 27 April 2023 at the latest, indicating “WASH - Training Content Development Consultant” in the subject of the email.

Only shortlisted candidates will be contacted.

Mongolia: Brutally cold winter kills livestock and leaves 80,000 children in need of aid