The surge on Wall Street on Thursday night on a lower PPI result could have arguably led to another step-jump opening for the ASX200 on Friday but the futures showed only a timid 15 point gain. The index opened, and initially fell.

But not for long. Local sentiment may have been tempered by the previous day’s strong jobs report, weighed against the US PPI, but in the end confidence won the day. Heading into the US reporting season, and a ramp-up in the local quarterly update season, the index drew a straight line upward all session to close on its high – almost 2% up for the week.

Sector-wise it was a team effort, with only two not closing in the green being healthcare (-0.3%) and real estate (-0.3%), which had outperformed over the week.

Materials was again the leader, but only on 0.9%, with gold and lithium dominating. Gold took a tumble on Friday night.

Next best was financials, rising 0.8% despite Bank of Queensland ((BOQ)) pre-announcing a goodwill write-down of its Home Building Society acquisition and extra for increased risk management investment as required by the regulator. A reduced dividend payout was indicated. Bank of Queensland fell -0.9%, but this did not impact on the majors.

Energy chimed in with 0.5% and staples with 0.6% to underpin market-wide buying both cyclical and defensive.

Technology seemed asleep at the wheel with only a 0.2% gain when the Nasdaq rose 2.0% overnight.

Discretionary rose only 0.2% despite a good day for Domino’s Pizza ((DMP)) for once, up 4.5% to split all the miners in the top-five index winners.

Losers were a mixed bag, led by The Lottery Company’s ((TLC)) -3.1% drop.

Tomorrow we’ll see the minutes of the April RBA meeting that may provide more clue as to just how long the pause can last.

We’ll also see China’s March quarter GDP result, along with month of March data.

And more US banks will report, among others this week, before the Big Tech companies dominate the following week.

The banks are off the a good start, but somewhat overridden by other factors on Wall Street Friday night. Still, the S&P500 lost -0.2%. Our futures were up 12 points on Saturday morning.