What’s going on with Splash Mountain in Disneyland?

Disney has announced that Splash Mountain in both Disney World and Disneyland would be reimagined into a new attraction called Tiana’s Bayou Adventure, inspired by The Princess and the Frog. The ride has already permanently closed in Disney World and work is underway to begin that transformation. However, Disneyland’s Splash Mountain has remained open. But now we know when it, too, will close forever.

Disney has confirmed that Splash Mountain will officially close in Disneyland on May 31st, 2023. That means the last day to ride the attraction will be on May 30th.

Once Splash Mountain closes in Disneyland, it will be reimagined into Tiana’s Bayou Adventure, which will feature a story that takes place after the ending of The Princess and the Frog. The story will follow Tiana after she has opened her own restaurant, but is also working to start an employee-owned company called Tiana’s Foods.

This company helps to make food products, as well as help those in the community take ownership in the business. Tiana has even purchased a new salt mine for the new company.

The ride will follow the princess as she hosts a Mardi Gras Celebration. But she needs YOUR help to find a missing key ingredient. Along the way, guests will meet new characters, like a band of musical critters, but will also be reunited with some familiar characters, too. Several voice actors from The Princess and the Frog will reprise their roles for the ride, including Jenifer Lewis as Mama Odie, Bruno Campos will return as Naveen, Michael-Leon Woodley will return as Louis, and Anika Noni Rose as Tiana.

Tiana’s Bayou Adventure is set to open in Disney World and Disneyland in 2024.

Want to grab a shirt to commemorate Splash Mountain? Check out our Briar Patch Band farewell tour shirt. You can also get it as a short sleeve graphic tee, long sleeve t-shirt, crewneck sweatshirt, and a hoodie.

You can also celebrate the arrival of Tiana’s first attraction in a Disney Park with our “Never Lose Sight of What’s Really Important” tee. It’s also available as a long-sleeve t-shirt, crewneck sweatshirt, and hoodie.

Stay tuned to DFB for the latest Disney news!

What do you think of this big change in Disneyland? Let us know in the comments!