The team at SolutionsHub are thrilled to announce their double nomination for the esteemed EGR B2B Awards 2023 in the categories of Corporate Services Supplier and Cryptocurrency Services Supplier. The highly anticipated awards ceremony will take place on June 8 at The Roundhouse in London.

The team at SolutionsHub seeks to build upon their past victories, having won the Cryptocurrency Services Supplier awards in both 2019 and 2022.

The EGR B2B Awards recognize and honor the very best service providers in the online gaming industry, celebrating the achievements of suppliers from all major egaming disciplines, including betting and gaming software, payments, recruitment, safer gambling tools, IT, infrastructure, and more.

This year’s nominees list features industry powerhouses such as Aspire Global, Pinnacle, and SOFTSWISS.

Lee Hills, CEO of SolutionsHub, expressed immense pride in the team’s double nomination, stating: “The EGR B2B Awards showcase the companies that power the egaming industry. They represent the pinnacle of achievement in the gambling sector, and being nominated for one award is already a significant accomplishment, let alone two. This recognition validates the expertise, dedication, and talent of our exceptional team.”

He added, “We’re delighted to be acknowledged once again for our cryptocurrency-related expertise, as it’s a highly specialized field where we have consistently been at the forefront.”

Hills also emphasized the Isle of Man’s role in driving global trends in crypto, blockchain, and egaming. He highlighted the island’s FinTech Innovation Challenge as an example of the Isle of Man’s forward thinking approach.

The Innovation Challenge is a collaboration between Digital Isle of Man, Finance Isle of Man, and supported by the Financial Services Authority, and Deloitte. It seeks to drive a thriving, sustainable future for the Isle of Man by giving innovative businesses around the world the chance to experience the island’s collaborative financial service sector and showcase their solutions to core challenges that have been identified across the Isle of Man business community.

Hills is a Buddy Mentor for Critical Compliance, a finalist in the wildcard category, who’s proprietary technology enhances the egaming industry’s ability to meet the growing and diverse demands of responsible gambling, by supporting companies and regulators to build sustainable, effective, and responsible gaming models.

The EGR B2B Awards 2023 nominations further cement the Isle of Man’s position as a center for innovative industry developments. As the SolutionsHub team eagerly awaits the ceremony, they remain optimistic about their chances against strong competition, aiming to secure another award to add to their 2019 and 2022 successes.