Continuing its core mission of getting more people on bikes, Diamondback is introducing two new collections of bikes in 2023. Designed for off-road adventure, the Yowie short travel mountain bike family and the redesigned Haanjo gravel bike family will round out Diamondback's lineup and provide more options for more riders. Each collection of bikes will have a full range of models for every level, making getting off the beaten path more accessible for both beginners and experts.

“I'm excited to finally introduce the new Yowie and updated Haanjo collections, two innovative lines of bikes designed to provide riders with the ultimate off-road adventure,” says Michael Brown VP of product Development for Alta Cycling. “The Yowie boasts exceptional performance and control in a short travel bike, while the redesigned Haanjo collection offers unmatched versatility with a new frame and updated components. We are proud to continue Diamondback's mission of getting more people on bikes, and we can't wait to see riders of all levels enjoy their favorite trails.”

A true mix between a trail and cross country bike, the Yowie is built for riders who want to tackle long, epic rides on a lightweight, fast and capable bike. Each of the five models in the collection are on 29-inch wheels and have a 130mm front fork and 110mm rear travel giving riders the absolute best overall performance and control. The geometry consists of a 67-degree head angle for stability in steep descents and quick handling in technical climbs, and a 75-degree seat angle and 435mm chainstays for a nimble climb with ample traction. The reach is extended and paired with shorter stems to provide the rider with a balanced and comfortable fit for all kinds of riding.

The collection also uses Diamondback's Level Link suspension, a proprietary design that ensures that the lower link stays in line with the chain throughout compression of the rear suspension, minimizing the effect of pedaling forces on the system. The upper link is perpendicular to the lower link at the sag point, which is where most pedaling occurs. This allows the system to stay active, ensuring traction is always maximized.

Featuring two carbon models and three alloy models ranging from $3,100 – $5,550, the Yowie collection will be kicking up dirt and available online and at retailers this coming summer.

The Haanjo gravel bike collection will receive a major redesign for the upcoming season. Featuring eight unique models, the Haanjo collection is the definition of versatility.  The models range from entry level commuter bikes to fully-featured, carbon do-it-all gravel bikes, and excel on road or dirt.

A major part of the redesign includes the new Haanjo frame that is now compatible with Diamodback's Haanjo Carbon fork, Rockshox Rudy or the SR Suntour GVX with travel ranging from 30mm up to 60mm. The axle to crown has been set at a balanced point to offer solid performance regardless of fork choice. This new frame can be found on the Haanjo 4 EXP through Haanjo 8C, and will also offer an increased number of attachment points to fit water bottle cages or add a bag on the top tube.

In addition to the redesigned frame, the new Haanjo 7C EXP has a Rock Shox Rudy 40mm Travel front fork and the Haanjo 4 EXP has a  SR Suntour GVX32, 60mm Travel Suspension Fork.

The suspension will increase performance, control and comfort on two key Haanjo models. Additionally, dropper posts are being added to the Haanjo 4 EXP through Haanjo 8C.

The new Haanjo collection ranging from $1,000 – $5,700 will be available online and at retailers in 2023.

Diamondback will be exhibiting at the Sea Otter Classic April 20 – 23. For additional information on all Diamondback bikes, please visit www.diamondback.com or follow on Instagram, Facebook or Twitter.