If you want to see DML NEWS APP articles without ads, click here.

As the most reliable and balanced news aggregation service on the internet, DML News App offers the following information published by Breitbart:

INDIANAPOLIS, Indiana — Former President Donald Trump told Breitbart News exclusively that if elected back into the White House he would immediately end current Democrat President Joe Biden’s scheme to give Obamacare to illegal aliens in contravention of a promise former President Barack Obama made.

Biden’s administration, as Breitbart News has reported, has taken steps to via executive action provide access to the Affordable Care Act to illegal aliens in the United States. Obama, when he was president and championing Obamacare’s passage through Congress, pledged that Obamacare would never get approved for illegal aliens—so Biden’s move is a direct betrayal of that promise.

Trump, in his exclusive interview with Breitbart News after his speech Friday night here to the National Rifle Association (NRA) annual gathering, said he thinks that Biden’s efforts will be legally challenged—and will fail. But if somehow Biden were able to get around the courts and get access to Obamacare into the hands of illegal aliens, Trump promised that he would order his cabinet to end it upon retaking the White House.

“He said it could never get approved,” Trump said, referring to Obama. “They’re doing it differently. I can’t imagine they will be allowed to do that via executive order so I’m certain it will be challenged. But certainly, I would order it ended,” he added.

Trump condemned Biden’s policies, telling Breitbart, “It’s not even believable that this could be happening. What it’s doing is telling everybody to come to America—‘we’re going to give you free healthcare, we’re going to give you everything.’ It’s crazy what’s going on. People are pouring in by the thousands—they’re coming in the caravans. Tens of thousands of people a day are just pouring into our country. We don’t know anything about these people. Nobody is checking them. Many of them are from mental institutions and prisons.”

Breitbart further quoted Trump as saying:

“Then on top of it you wonder—gee, let’s keep them away, but when you tell them they get free healthcare, free education, free everything, everyone is going to come. There won’t be anybody left living in South America. But it’s more than South America. They’re coming from all over the world—Africa, Asia. They’re coming from all over the world and just walking into our country. I know people that are coming into our country and they go through this process of tests and studying—you want to tell them but you don’t tell them this, just go over to the southern border and just walk on in. It’s horrible what’s happening. But when you make that kind of a pledge—Obamacare, or healthcare, for people—you’re going to increase the numbers tenfold.”

“I will do the opposite—we will take all of the criminals and sadly the mental patients being brought into our country and dumped here, we’ll be bringing them out very quickly,” Trump vowed.

Former President @realdonaldtrump says if reelected, he would immediately end current Democrat President Joe Biden’s scheme to give Obamacare to illegal aliens. https://t.co/Tm1GLThXeQ

To get more information about this article, please visit Breitbart.

The Dennis Michael Lynch Podcast is available below. Never miss an episode. Subscribe to the show by downloading The DML News App or go to Apple Podcasts.