Good morning and welcome to your Morning Briefing for Tuesday 18 April, 2023. To get this in your inbox every morning click here.

Protection comparison specialist CIExpert has added income protection on its adviser portal Insight Zone.

It will provides advisers easy access to key information on all aspects of income protection policies in an educational way.

CIExpert said the move follows market demand to include an area in the hub focused on income protection.

Should you go self-employed?

In most industries, people go self-employed once they have several years’ experience and a strong network of contacts behind them.

Although many advisers follow this tried-and-tested path, some have been trained by a firm with a business model built on self-employment. Hence, when they qualify, they must find their own clients.

Andy Taylor, director at recruitment firm Exchange Street Financial Services, describes going self-employed as a new adviser as a case of “sink or swim”.

Quote Of The Day

The gender disparity seems to echo what we already know about the gender pension gap – women are likely to earn less throughout their lifetime.

– Dean Butler, managing director for customer at Standard Life, on women’s lack of knowledge about pension savings

Standard Life’s Retirement Voice study, conducted among almost 6,000 consumers, found there is a lack of knowledge about pension pot amounts across age groups. It found that:

Three in four people (75%) don’t know how much they have in pension savings. Perhaps most worryingly as many as

of those aged between 55 and 64, who are likely to be at the most crucial stage of retirement planning as they start to look at their options for life after work, can’t put a figure on their pension pot.

The research also highlighted that women are less likely to know what they’ve saved up than men (81% don’t have a number in mind, compared to 68% of men).

People tend to have some awareness of how much income they will need in retirement – respondents of all age groups and genders put more than the Pension and Lifetime Savings Association’s income needed for a minimum standard of living –  but noticeably women estimate considerably less, £22,428 versus £32,617 for men.

Manchester-based Pareto Financial Planning is the latest member to join GRiD, the industry body for the group risk protection sector.

Pareto supports its business clients across several areas including employee benefits and protection insurance.

It also offers individuals advice on wealth management, protection, retirement, and inheritance planning.

Pareto Financial Planning employee benefits consultant Alan Makinson said: “Being a member of GRiD helps us to stay up to date with developments in the group risk market and have an influence in its future, enabling us to keep up to date with current trends and legislation relating to group risk products, and help our clients make the right decisions on their cover.”

GRiD chair Paul White said: “We know that the knowledge-share between providers, advisers, suppliers and those at the coal face is a vital part of the group protection picture, which is why we’re so pleased to have financial planners join the organisation. Pareto will also help us to take the group risk message out to smaller businesses whilst also benefiting themselves from the wide variety of support we have to offer.”

Danny Szabo has joined JM Finn as an investment manager. Szabo has worked in investment management for more than a decade.

He has obtained the Chartered Wealth Manager designation and holds Chartered Fellow status at the Chartered Institute for Securities and Investments.

Prior to joining JM Finn, he managed discretionary assets on behalf of private clients and intermediaries at Atomos.

His previous firms include Evelyn Partners, where he was responsible for a team who managed assets more than £600m, and Oxford Capital.

Szabo took up his role in and is based in JM Finn’s London office. He works closely with Paul Dyas, head of investment management.

He will be responsible for managing client portfolios and developing investment strategies that align with each client’s unique financial objectives.

Did You See?

Cazalet Consulting’s Ned Cazalet published his seminal report entitled “Polly Put the Kettle On” back in 2006, in which he pulled the rug from under the insurance industry by arguing commissions paid in respect of new sales were a misnomer, because there were no new sales.

In reality, new business was just being recycled from one insurer to another, fuelled by the significant commissions being paid at the time. Hence Polly putting the kettle on, then putting it on again.

It’s clear we are starting to see the same happen in parts of the financial advice marketplace.

While the main focus is on consolidation in the sector, the actual statistics run slightly counter to the narrative.