The EPIC Five Plan: 5 Steps to Reclaiming Your Health and Vitality! by Dr. Jason Bradley

Two-thirds of us will die between the ages of fifty and seventy. Keep reading if you don’t want to become a statistic…

Several years ago, Dr. Jason Bradley found himself 100+ pounds overweight, with bags under his eyes, a surprising amount of hair loss, and more exhaustion than he ever dreamt possible.

Busy with an integrated medical center, he was seeing countless patients, making use of just about every modality you could imagine, from general to functional medicine (and everything in between). He loved the work, his colleagues, and his patients. Still, he found himself working longer and longer hours while pushing himself harder and harder…

With his hair falling out and his skin feeling drier than a desert, he was staring at a man in his mirror who resembled his grandfather. No matter the caliber of his medical practice, he was his hardest case to crack. Feeling shame and reaching his limit, as colleagues and patients expressed concern, Dr. Bradley sought outside help.

Alternative medicine, podcasts, online rabbit holes, and every possible avenue led to zero results. The problems persisted, leaving Dr. Bradley feeling like a fraud. He knew his life was on the line. He needed insight—a way to pull all the random puzzle pieces into a cohesive picture.

Dr. Bradley successfully reclaimed his health and happiness and took back his life. And now, through this book, he shares the foundation of how he accomplished these results.

Get This How To & Advice Book.

Jason Bradley, ND, DC, MA, IFMCP, is the founder and medical director of EPIC Functional Medicine. He is the author of The EPIC Five Plan. And along with his wife, Dr. Rachel Bradley, he is the cocreator of The EPIC Five RECLAIM Plan. Through his private practice, educational efforts, writing, research, advocacy, and public work, he strives to improve access to the transformative healthcare system known as functional medicine. Dr. Bradley’s approach empowers others to address the true underlying causes of illness, thereby tackling our nation’s chronic-disease epidemic.