This is an effort to collect as many faces as I can put together from the crowd that hung out on the NW corner of 87th Street and York Avenue. Most of the people that I remember attended the eighth grade at St. Joseph’s Grammar School on 87th Street between York and 1st Avenue. Several others from the crowd attended other schools in Yorkville and the New York City area. for now, I’ll concentrate on the name and faces that I can put together from some of the pictures that I collected from the internet over the years.

This is a really old picture and I have no way of getting a clearer picture of the corner where Kronk’s Luncheonette would have been located. If anyone could enlarge the picture to get a clearer view of the name of the store, I would appreciate it.

If you were standing on the corner where Kronk’s Luncheonette was located, this is the view you would have seen with Kronk’s Luncheonette at your back as you looked across the avenue.

And if you turned around to look at the outside of Kronk’s Luncheonette, you would see some of these faces over the course of the year and the summer of 1961.

I have to give a thank you to Roy Thorensten’s wife for supplying me with this picture of the Kindergarten Class at St. Joseph’s Grammar School. See if you can spot me.

Here is a picture of several of the people from the corner when they were in the 7th Grade at St. Jospeh Grammar School.

Quite a few of the pictures of the crowd that hung around Kronk’s Luncheonette were from the first time that I was in the 8th Grade at St. Joseph Grammar School. One day, I was sent back to the 7th Grade and was too talkative and immediately invited to spend the rest of the day in the 5th Grade. I remember the day like it was yesterday. For the rest of the week, I was with the principal because it was Christmas week. The next week I got to spend the rest of the year in my new 7th Grade class. For some reason, I do not have access to the 8th Grade Graduating class from St. Joseph.

If memory serves me right, Billy ended up serving in Vietnam in the U. S. Army and there was talk of a movie being made about his experiences in Vietnam.

Charlie’s call to fame was that he lid next door to Chas. Nagel Funeral Home on 87th Street. There were times that he would sneak down into the funeral parlor to observe a few procedures. He had a great memory and knew by heart a lot of the nursery rhymes that we knew as a child, albeit, a different and funny version of the original. Charlie was one of my closest friends.

Donna is one of the girls from the crowd that I remember the most. I believe that she was one of the original members, like the Dildey girls. I know that Donna is active on the net and I hope that she can add some more info.

Eddie Barber was another face from the crowd that I remember who was a member of the original crowd over the years. If I recall, his family moved to Brooklyn but still hung around with the

Fred lived on 87th Street and was the older brother to Tommy Bernardi, who also hung around with the crowd from the corner and bother attended St. Joseph Grammar School on 87th Street.

St. Joseph Grammar School on 87th Street between York and Ist Avenue

If memory serves me, the school was direct across the street from the Sanitation Department’s building.

I know Cornelius from school and from the street and think that he may be part of the crowd. I know that he is an engineer and is tied to some major projects in New York City.

Henry was another close friend from the corner and we both joined and left for boot camp on the same day, August 30, 1961, in the U. S. Marines. in South Carolina.

James Scheide was another member of the crowd from the corner and as you can see from the picture in his Marine uniform.

Joan Dildey was another of the girls from the corner and she had an older sister name, Marilyn. I was able to locate Joan’s picture from when she graduated from St. Stephen of Hungary School on 83th Street.

St. Stephen of Hungary on 83rd Street between York and 1st Avenue

Here is Joan Dildey in the graduating class of 1960 from St. Stephen of Hungary.

This is Dennis Rice and possibly one of the people from the corner. I remember that I stopped in a restaurant on 86th Street, near the corner, for a cup of coffee while on a job hunt and was served by Dennis Rice who happened to work at that restaurant. Small world.

This is Michael Dougherty, my brother, Pat McCormick, Mary’s sister, and myself, Marty

Peter was related to the Bernardi brothers. Both Peter and the Bernardi brother were on the St. Joseph School Basketball Ball Team.

A few more names to add: Bobby Federal, Mickey Solentano, Bobby Slentano, Brother, and Peter RisoloThat covers some of the faces of the crowd that hung around outside of Kronk’s Luncheonette.

Donate to: doherty167@yahoo.com at PayPal.com