At the heart of this special leaders' retreat is the unity and strength of our one BluePacific, says outgoing forum chair and Fijian Prime Minister Sitiveni Rabuka.

The Pacific has condemned a security pact between Australia, United States and the United Kingdom with experts claiming AUKUS is keeping Washington firmly engaged in Indo-Pacific.

Beyond responding to China’s growing influence in the region, the $400 billion AUKUS partnership – formalised in San Diego, California, last month – provides a fleet of nuclear-powered submarines to Australia by the mid-2050s.

But the Pacific Islands Forum warns “AUKUS will bring war much closer to home and goes against the Blue Pacific narrative on nuclear proliferation and the cost to climate change.”

Forum secretary-general Mark Brown said AUKUS would heighten geopolitical tensions and disturb the peace and security of the region.

READ MORE:

* China targets new trade talks to expand power and influence in the Pacific

* Why New Zealand should remain sceptical about Aukus

* Deputy PM Carmel Sepuloni to attend Pacific leaders' meeting

* Security pact: Why Solomon Islands chose China over Australia

China said “AUKUS is a Cold War mentality” and would only motivate an arms race, damage the international nuclear non-proliferation regime, and harm regional stability and peace.

In a statement, the Chinese Foreign Ministry said it had “made clear its severe concern and firm opposition” to AUKUS - highlighting reactions by the US and its allies when Beijing signed a security deal with the Solomon Islands last year.

China has condemned the AUKUS pact: Here Chinese Premier Li Keqiang, left, and Solomon Islands Prime Minister Manasseh Sogavare review an honour guard at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing in 2019.

Solomons’ Prime Minister Manasseh Sogavare was criticised over the agreement which allows him to call on Beijing at any time for police and defence assistance.

This week, Sogavare condemned Canberra’s lack of consultation with Pacific leaders on the AUKUS pact.

Sogavare said the Pacific was a nuclear-free zone, but Australia maintained the submarines would not carry nuclear weapons.

Aotearoa and Australia both view “direct and open engagement” with the Pacific as a step to reducing China’s growing influence in the region.

This weekend’s Anzac visit to Australia by Prime Minister Chris Hipkins also highlights changes in New Zealand foreign policy.

Deputy Prime Minister Carmel Sepuloni is touring the Solomons, Tonga and Fiji “to strengthen New Zealand’s relationships and reaffirm its commitment to our Pacific whānau”.

Launched in September 2021, AUKUS’ main aim was to share information in key technological areas, including artificial intelligence and cybersecurity, to defend the Indo-Pacific region.

But Brown, who is also the Cook Islands prime minister, said he was concerned because the AUKUS deal was “going against” the Treaty of Rarotonga.

The treaty, signed in 1985 by forum members including New Zealand and Australia, was about reducing the proliferation of nuclear weapons and nuclear vessels.

AUKUS deal sealed: From left, Australia’s Prime Minister Anthony Albanese, US President Joe Biden and Britain's Prime Minister Rishi Sunak at Point Loma naval base in San Diego, US, on March 13, 2023.

The “conflicting” nuclear submarine deal is expected to be discussed at the forum leaders meeting in Rarotonga in October.

Professor Robert G Patman, specialist in international relations at Otago University, said despite claims AUKUS threatened to marginalise Aotearoa, there was little evidence to justify such concerns.

In his latest analysis, Another Way to Look at AUKUS, published last month, Melbourne-based political analyst Grant Wyeth said the agreement was also the “persistent breaking of international law in the South China Sea and its stated threat to absorb Taiwan into the People’s Republic by force.

“What if AUKUS is less about China and more about the United States? And I don’t mean the tiresome commentary within Australia about Canberra being servile to US interests. AUKUS could be a $245 billion investment in the maintenance of American norms.

“It’s a way to keep Washington engaged in the Indo-Pacific, and to create significant internal pressures that can counteract the forces of instability and strains of isolationism,” Wyeth said.

He said AUKUS was part of a “collective deterrence strategy" to prevent Beijing from invading Taiwan, which China sees as part of its own.

A communiqué issued by former Pacific leaders - Marshall Islands’ Hilda Heine, Palau’s Tommy Remengesau, Tuvalu’s Enele Sopoga, and Kiribati’s Anote Tong - is calling on governments to “do more to combat climate change first and foremost”.

“Nuclear power carried risks, especially after the 2011 Fukushima disaster and as we discuss nuclear-powered submarines in the Pacific, we must also address concerns about increased militarisation of the region,” it said.