ShopFollow

Featuring a line of camouflage prints of the Bonsai Forest.

Hardy Blechman’s maharishi has just presented a new Summer 2023 editorial campaign and it sees the brand expand its mainline of garments with new inspirations that stem from the Songkran Water Festival in Thailand.

Over recent times, maharishi has kept its fans on their toes with a slew of high-profile collaborations and collections. For example, the brand’s recent link-up with Mizuno welcomed a military-inspired Wave Rider 10 silhouette, while its Spring 2023 capsule also took further inspiration from the lands of Northern Thailand.

Now, the British imprint is continuing to work militarily with its new collection for the Summer. As per the maharishi website, the new line travels back to the times where Buddhists would visit temples to pour water over statues and on the hands of monks as a mark of respect. These practices took place annually to mark the approach of the Lunar New Year, and further pointers have been integrated across maharishi’s new garments to celebrate this time.

Examples of this come in the form of camouflage prints of the Bonsai Forest, while more intricate takes on woodblock artworks are embroidered on organic cotton sweats and maharishi’s classic Original Snopants. Additionally, the collection also welcomes a new assemblage of outerwear pieces that combine fabrications of Flight Nylon, Upcycled Military Surplus, and Reisin Cotton across a selection of flight jackets and short parkas.

Rounding off the capsule, maharishi includes oversized and low-riding shorts, while a slew of heavy-set prints can be spotted across several breathable bowling shirts and accessories.

You can take a closer look at the new Summer collection from maharishi above and it is available to shop via the brand’s official website now.

Elsewhere in fashion, check out the new Bob Marley-inspired collection from MARKET.

What to Read Next

Craghoppers Explores the Power of Water for SS23

With items constructed using recycled materials such as plastic bottles that were originally sent to landfills across the UK.

maharishi Looks to 2023 With All-New Pre-Spring Collection

Inspired by a journey from Vietnam to the Himalayas.

Featuring an air hockey table, USM Credenza, bracelets by Jacob & Co., Tamagotchi, and more.

Available now for $1,150 USD.

BTS Exhibition 'PROOF' To Open in Los Angeles for the K-Pop Group's 10th Anniversary

The experiential installation will take visitors on an “immersive visual journey that explores the members’ past, present, and future.”

South London Rapper Kwengface Reveals His Face for the First Time on 'A COLORS SHOW'

Coming in either “Black” or “Sea Salt” for $550-$600 USD a pair.

Gucci Throws It Back With the Retro-Inspired MAC80 Sneaker

New Balance Made in UK Unveils Its 576 in "Monks Robe"

Available to shop from April 20.

8 Drops You Don't Want to Miss This Week

Rado Readies the True Square Automatic Skeleton in Three Colorways

The BMW XM Label Red Is the Most Powerful M-Car Ever Built

Packing a hybrid V8 that produces 738 HP, 738 lb-ft of torque, and supercar-matching performance figures.

More ▾

Hypebeast® is a registered trademark of Hypebeast Hong Kong Ltd.