Skip to main contentSkip to main content

Sign up for our newsletter to keep reading.

Get Government & Politics updates in your inbox!

Stay up-to-date on the latest in local and national government and political topics with our newsletter.

You are the owner of this article.

You have permission to edit this article.

Stitt vetoes first bill of session as lawmakers seek input on $600M surplus

OKLAHOMA CITY — Gov. Kevin Stitt issued his first veto of the legislative session on Monday as lawmakers and the executive branch wrestle for control of $600 million in surplus cash at a state agency. Stitt vetoed Senate Bill 1130, which would have blocked the Oklahoma Health Care Authority from spending $600 million in unused cash in the current fiscal year, which ends June 30. At the very least, Stitt wrote in his veto letter, decisions about how to spend the surplus funds should be delayed until 2024, after the nine-month Medicaid period in which the Health Care Authority is disenrolling from Medicaid more than 300,000 Oklahomans who were added to Medicaid during the COVID-19 pandemic but who no longer qualify for the government health benefits.

Oklahoma governor says McCurtain County officials caught on audio should resign

Update: Two die from shootings at Tulsa library, convenience store

Michael Overall: How historic Swan Lake tried to be Tulsa's 'Disneyland'

House speaker: Ryan Walters rejected request to appear before legislative panel

New classical charter school choice in south Tulsa has national ties, big student waitlist

Gathering Place to transform for a day into a creative campsite for outdoor adventures

With a transfer portal infusion, Todd Bates sees retooled Sooners defensive line ready to bring pressure in 2023

Oklahoma AG's letter: Walters cannot be superintendent, education secretary at same time

Is Oklahoma's next governor's race already getting started?

The surplus funds at the Health Care Authority stem from enhanced Medicaid matching funds the federal government doled out to states during the pandemic."This bill would punish the Health Care Authority for its fiscal conservatism and wise stewardship of taxpayer dollars," Stitt wrote in his veto letter. "That's simply wrong."  Support local journalism by becoming a subscriber. Click hereThe governor also expressed concerns that lawmakers intend to use the $600 million to fund a portion of the Health Care Authority's annual budget. The surplus funds should be used to finance strategic health care initiatives, not the routine functions of the Health Care Authority, Stitt added. Lawmakers want to ensure that the state agency doesn't spend the money without their input.Legislative budget committee chairmen previously expressed frustrations that Health Care Authority leaders were unilaterally seeking ideas for ways to spend the money, according to NonDoc, an online news outlet. The Legislature should vote on how the money is spent, the chairmen said. "The conversation really needs to start in this building," House Appropriations Committee Chairman Kevin Wallace, R-Wellston, said at the Capitol last week.  Wallace said he had seen a list of proposed ideas for how the executive branch, which includes the Health Care Authority, wanted to spend the surplus funds. That list included some projects that were unrelated to health care, he said on the House floor. The Oklahoma Legislature can override the governor's veto with two-thirds majorities in both chambers. The House and Senate both gave nearly unanimous approval to SB 1130.

April is National Child Abuse Prevention Month . Ginnie Graham talks with Maura Guten, president and CEO of Child Abuse Network in Tulsa, about protecting our most valuable and vulnerable population.

Elvis Presley is shown during his performance at the Tulsa fairgrounds Pavilion in 1956. He performed two shows, “shaking himself as though there was an entire hive of bees inside his clothes,” one reporter wrote. Courtesy/ Davit Souders

The Tulsa World’s review of Elvis Presley’s July 4, 1976, performance at the Mabee Center compared him to a “baby whale.” World archives

A line forms behind Carolyn Kilpatrick, Garden Grove, California, as people waited in May 1976 to buy tickets to Elvis Presley's July 4, 1976, concert at the Mabee Center in Tulsa. Tulsa World file

An ad in the Tulsa World on April 18, 1956, promotes two shows at 7 and 9 p.m. by Elvis Presley, "sensational RCA Victor Artist, Coast to Coast Television Star with Big Cast of Singers, Dancers, Comedians." Admission was $1, aside from the reserved seating. The show included performances by Leon McAuliffe's band and Wanda Jackson.

A photo from microfilm of a Tulsa World page on June 22, 1972, shows Elvis Presley, surrounded by admirers and police, outside the Mayo Hotel as his limousine caused a temporary traffic jam. The caption says Elvis was wearing the same white suit he wore on June 20 at his sellout show at the Tulsa Assembly Center. The photo was taken on June 21 by World photographer J.R. Jones.

One of Elvis Presley's stage costumes is shown at the Hard Rock Casino in Tulsa in 2015. STEPHEN PINGRY/Tulsa World file

This handgun, once owned by Elvis Presley, is among memorabilia on display at the Hard Rock Hotel and Casino. STEPHEN PINGRY/Tulsa World file

Check out our latest digital-only offer and subscribe now

Check out our latest digital-only offer and subscribe now: Tulsaworld.com/subscribe

Get Government & Politics updates in your inbox!

Stay up-to-date on the latest in local and national government and political topics with our newsletter.

* I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy.

Your notification has been saved.

There was a problem saving your notification.

Email notifications are only sent once a day, and only if there are new matching items.

Please log in to use this feature

Log In

Don't have an account? Sign Up Today

“There was no issue with Ryan Walters’ performance as secretary of education," a spokeswoman for the governor said. Walters did not answer que…

Is Oklahoma's next governor's race already getting started?

Gov. Stitt won’t be eligible to run again because of term limits. No elected officials have declared their intent to run, but sometimes action…

The panel had already begun work on a new five-year plan to reduce homelessness, a former chairman said, adding that he thinks the governor's …

Oklahoma signs deal for Panasonic battery plant in Pryor, but there's a catch

The announcement comes as $698 million socked away in the LEAD Act Fund is about to revert to the state's general revenue fund. Speaker Charle…

Oklahoma AG's letter: Walters cannot be superintendent, education secretary at same time

The Senate president pro tem sought legal guidance on whether Ryan Walters could serve simultaneously in the state offices, a spokesman confir…

G7 vows 'severe costs' for those helping Russia in Ukraine

Take a look at the world's largest ruby to ever be auctioned

Take a look at the world's largest ruby to ever be auctioned

You don't have any notifications.

Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.