The Northern Cape can expect to see a mostly sunny day. Image: Pixabay

The Northern Cape can expect to see a mostly sunny day. Image: Pixabay

The Northern Cape can expect to see a sunny day with clouds in some areas today, 19 April, according to the latest forecast by the SA Weather Service.

See more weather on the live blog here: Weather live updates

Here is the weather forecast for your area:

ALSO READ: Lifehack: IF you wash your natural hair with Coca-Cola this will happen [VIDEO]

As temperatures drop, it’s important to remember that our pets also feel the cold. Just like us, pets can be at risk of frostbite, hypothermia, and other winter-related hazards. Here are some tips to help keep your furry friend safe and warm during the colder months.

Keep them indoors If it’s too cold for you, it’s probably too cold for your pet. Keep them inside where they can stay cozy and safe. Don’t leave pets in the car alone, as it can act like a refrigerator and hold in the cold air, which can result in your pet freezing and could lead to serious health concerns, including death.

Protect their paws After each walk, wash and dry your pet’s feet and stomach. Your pet may step in ice, salt, and chemicals, which can be very painful. Massage petroleum jelly into your pet’s paw pads before going outside to help protect from salt and chemical agents. Booties can also be effective in covering and protecting paws when out on walks.

ALSO READ: Tiktok Video of Thabo Bester vibing in his prison cell [Watch]

Keep them warm Never shave your dog down to their skin during winter. Longer coats provide more warmth.

Hydrate and feed them well Feed your pet a little extra in the winter months as they work harder to stay warm and burn extra energy. Ensure they are also drinking plenty of water to keep them and their skin hydrated.

Provide a warm sleeping area Ensure your furry companion has a warm place to sleep that’s off the floor and away from drafts. A cozy dog or cat bed with a warm blanket or pillow is perfect.

CLICK HERE TO READ MORE ARTICLES BY MICHELLE SWART