As if buying a home wasn’t enough of a lottery, borrowers are now facing a major gamble on their mortgage.

Whether buying or remortgaging, they need to work out how long to fix for and try to assess what might happen next to interest rates.

On the basis that even the world’s top economists and investors didn’t spot the past year’s sudden interest rate spike coming and can’t agree on what central banks will do next, that’s a tough task.

Five-year fixed rates are cheaper than two-year fixed rates, but borrowers worry they risk locking in at higher rates for longer.

Meanwhile, trackers are pricier but could fall if the base rate comes down, although there’s not much agreement on when the Bank of England will stop hiking, or how swiftly it will lower rates when it eventually does.

On this podcast, Georgie Frost, Helen Crane and Simon Lambert discuss the great mortgage gamble and what people can do.

Also on the show, the house price hotspots of the past decade – and why living in a place where home values has doubled may not be a good thing.

Simon takes a look at UK shares, why they are considered cheap and whether they are a decent investment or not.

Helen talks through her latest Crane on the Case and how it involved a loyal BA customer locked out of a staggering number of Avios points and getting a raw deal from the airline on sorting it out.

And finally, here is a test of your age: how well do you remember the Ford Orion, Austin Maestro and Vauxhall Nova… and did you ever believe that one day they’d be classic cars?

Listen to the This is Money podcast  We publish the podcast every Friday to the player on This is Money, above, and on Apple Podcasts (iTunes), the most popular, Spotify, Audioboom, and so many more. To download the Apple Podcasts app go to the App store. On Android devices, go to the Google Play store to download the podcast app of your choice. You can press play to listen to this week's full episode on the player above, and wherever you get your podcasts please subscribe and review us if you like the podcast.We're now available on YouTube and you can ask your smart device to 'play the This is Money podcast'. If you're not happy using apps, you can also listen to the latest episode and archive on the This is Money podcast page.