Nollywood actress, Sophia Williams has bragged about her worth amid her ex-husband, Tchidi Chikere’s marriage.

Taking to his Instagram page, Sophia shared a stunning photo of herself as she praised herself.

The mother of three boys described herself as the wife of a king, a queen mother, and a mogul.

This is coming after Sophia had taken to the comment section of his post to react.

Proving that there is no enmity between them, she congratulated him on his remarriage.

She wrote: “Congrats my G”, and added a clapping emoji.

Furthermore, the newly married actor shared a private message he received from his first ex-wife expressing her happiness for him as he weds for the 3rd time.

In the private message, she mentioned that it is hurting some people that she congratulated him.

According to Tchidi, this is how they laugh and raise the three boys they share.

When Kemi Filani contacted Sophia Williams who has also moved on with her life, she revealed that she is indeed truly happy for her ex-husband because she is not a toxic lover.

She added that love is very deep and full of sacrifice.

William said, “My sister, You know that we are family still. So, no matter what and we have an understanding basically for the kids only and I have moved on a long long time ago. I’m happy and doing so well by God’s grace. To be honest, I am happy for him. Life is for the living. Do what makes you happy. This thing called love is deep! Love is sacrifice.”

Tchidi Chikere speaks out on why his first marriage crashed

Tchidi Chikere, on his part, had spoken out on why his first marriage to actress, Sophia Williams crashed.

While appreciating her for congratulating him on his new marriage, Tchidi hinted that their marriage failed because they were young.

He noted how she was 18 and he was close to kid twenties but now they are older and wiser.

Tchidi sent a message to her husband and he told him to take good care of her.

“Thanks again my G. I told u I’ll post only this one and go get busy. Thanks for wishing us well… And tell that ur bobo to look after you well. We were too young when we did it. You were 18 and I was close to kid twenties…but now u’re older and wiser…and me too”.