Kylie Jenner took to Instagram on Tuesday to share a sweet video where she was on mommy duty.

The daughter of Kris Jenner was seen showering her second child, 14-month-old son Aire, with tender kisses as they sat on an unmade bed.

The 25-year-old Kylie Cosmetics founder also was with her eldest child, five-year-old daughter Stormi Webster. Her ex-boyfriend, 31-year-old rapper Travis Scott, is father to both children.

The Keeping Up With The Kardashians veteran was makeup free as she enjoyed some down time after partying at Coachella over the weekend.

This post comes just after the reality TV staple shared with the magazine Homme Girls that she may want more children. She has recently been romantically linked to actor Timothee Chalamet.

Jenner looked at ease in her new clip shared to her Insta Stories.

The star had on a black T-shirt as she doted on her little boy.

She spent almost the entirety of the video kissing the child on his head over and over again, which for the most part hid her lips.

There has been talk that she may have taken more of her lip fillers out for a natural look but Kylie has yet to confirm the rumour.

The star shared years ago that she has lessened the amount of lip filler she uses because she thinks it looks better.

Also seen in the clip was little Stormi who was in pink. She seemed curious about all the attention mommy Kylie was lavishing on her sibling.

Also this week, Jenner talked to Homme Girls about how many children she may want to have.

Jenner said that she does not have an ideal 'number in mind' when it comes to having kids.

The reality TV star added she does not 'really have a plan' about parenthood and family life.

She said in a cover interview: 'Some women do (have a plan)... I think that whatever happens is meant to happen.

'Whatever is gonna happen, it's gonna happen. I... feel very in control of my life and my decisions.'

This means she does not rule out adding to her brood.

Kylie added she prefers to subscribe to the idea of fate, adding she has 'always felt' things 'were written for us.'

She said about considering her kids a gift: 'It's such a blessing that I've been able to live and experience so much life at such a young age. I have two kids. I'm 25. Honestly, I've never been happier.

'My daughter looks like me. I get to see my beauty in her, and it's made me love myself more.'

Kylie and Travis had an on-off romance for five years before finally calling it quits in January.

While she and 27-year-old actor Timothee have not been photographed together, Kylie sparked talk they were dating when her SUV was spotted arriving at his Beverly Hills mansion earlier this month.

Another of her cars, a Lincoln Navigator, was also seen picking up the Bones And All actor during a date last week.

A source told Us Weekly the pair are 'enjoying getting to know each other' and they are not yet 'that serious'.

They said: 'Timothée is a total gentleman and treats [Kylie] with respect. … So far, she likes what she sees.'

Chalamet has dated Madonna's daughter Lourdes Leon and Johnny Depp's daughter Lily-Rose Depp in the past.

Kylie has also dated rapper Tyga in the past. He has a child with Blac Chyna, Rob Kardashian's former fiancee, and is now dating Avril Lavigne.