THE LITTLE MERMAID New Stills Showcase Ariel And Prince Eric; Director Teases "Underwater Musical"

The Little Mermaid director Rob Marshall has revealed more about his approach to developing an underwater musical, while we have new stills that put the spotlight on Areial and Prince Eric. Check them out!

THE LITTLE MERMAID New Stills Showcase Ariel And Prince Eric; Director Teases "Underwater Musical"

The Little Mermaid director Rob Marshall has revealed more about his approach to developing an underwater musical, while we have new stills that put the spotlight on Areial and Prince Eric. Check them out!

Filmmaker Rob Marshall is no stranger to musicals after helming movies like Into The Woods and Mary Poppins Returns, but The Little Mermaid is a movie that presents a whole new set of challenges.

Disney's upcoming live-action adaptation of the 1989 animated classic will literally take us under the sea, and Marshall tells Empire Online that both the concept and song left him asking a big question before he could start work on the movie.

"How do you begin creating an underwater musical?" he ponders. "It’s never been done before. That fear ignited something in me. We introduce the singing underwater. It’s very delicate, how you introduce song."

"It’s in this surreal world. We open the film above water, and then we go into this other world, and you accept those things immediately."

As for "Under The Sea" itself, Marshall admits that it's "the most complicated musical number I’ve ever done."

He also confirmed that among Lin-Manuel Miranda and Alan Menken's new songs is "Wild Uncharted Waters," a musical number of Prince Eric. Actor Jonah Hauer-King says, "It’s a call-out to the girl that saved him. They’re both looking for adventure, to other worlds."

Some new stills from The Little Mermaid have also been released to accompany these comments showcasing both Hauer-King's character and Halle Bailey's Ariel.

The Little Mermaid opens in theaters on May 26, 2023.

EXCLUSIVE 🌊

Rob Marshall talks making #TheLittleMermaid into an all-out underwater musical: "It’s never been done before," he tells Empire. "That fear ignited something in me."

READ MORE: https://t.co/X0vFkhVXKc pic.twitter.com/Rj2c3jVnMQ

— Empire Magazine (@empiremagazine) April 11, 2023

EXCLUSIVE 🌊#TheLittleMermaid’s new Prince Eric song is a "call-out" to Ariel, says star Jonah Hauer-King: "They’re both looking for adventure," he tells Empire.

READ MORE: https://t.co/9aatrocG0D pic.twitter.com/BQhpV1KntC

— Empire Magazine (@empiremagazine) April 10, 2023