Skip to main contentSkip to main content

Sign up for our newsletter to keep reading.

Receive the latest in local entertainment news in your inbox weekly!

You are the owner of this article.

You have permission to edit this article.

Battista's Artisan Pizzeria is a hidden gem tucked away in the basement of the Hall of Justice at 220 S Main St. in downtown Crown Point. The pizzeria makes a number of gourmet brick oven-cooked pizzas near the Old Lake County Courthouse Square and in the summer months outside Avgo in St. John, where it's looking to establish a second location.Its pies include a classic Margherita, a BBQ chicken pizza, Battista’s Almost World Famous Sort of Stuffed Pizza and an Italian Stallion with Calabrese salami, fresno chili oil, fior di latte and ricotta. The Carne Pizza is topped with sausage, pepperoni, capicola, onion, basil and Fresno chilis.It especially excels at white pizzas like bacon and eggs pizza and the Cluck, Cluck Boom that blends chicken, mozzarella, basil pesto, cherry tomatoes, balsamic reduction, hot peppers and arugula.

Valpo man nabbed with child porn after making video of his online activities, police say

Ex- Chicago attorney sent to prison for defrauding Lake Station family

NWI Business Ins and Outs: Indian Curry, America's Antique Mall, Italian beef place, Eatery 41 and Northwest Health opening; Pizza Hut and Dollar Tree rebuilding

Porter County man denies dragging child to his garage for sex, records show

88-year-old Whiting White Castle will end up on display in museums in Illinois and Indiana

Cannabis retail store to open just across state line in New Buffalo

Body found in Hobart lake; no foul play suspected, officials say

State prison employee in critical condition after assault by incarcerated man

12-year-old nabbed at Region charter school with loaded handgun, cops say

A standout is the mushroom pizza that's topped with provolone, mozzarella, ricotta, truffle oil, onions and big, plump mushrooms. The earthy mushrooms add a lot of umami flavor. The truffle oil adds a musky, nutty pungency that makes it extra savory. The blend of melted cheeses contributed a layered flavor. Sometimes a simple selection of high-quality ingredients just tastes better. Battista's Artisan Pizzeria's mushroom pizza is a straightforward and uncluttered pizza that's immensely cravable.For more information, visit battistasartisanpizzeria.com or call 219- 333-2188.

Have a Taste for something?

If you have a Taste Test suggestion, please email kerry.erickson@nwi.com.

Receive the latest in local entertainment news in your inbox weekly!

* I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy.

Joseph S. Pete is a Lisagor Award-winning business reporter who covers steel, industry, unions, the ports, retail, banking and more. The Indiana University grad has been with The Times since 2013 and blogs about craft beer, culture and the military.

Your notification has been saved.

There was a problem saving your notification.

Email notifications are only sent once a day, and only if there are new matching items.

Please log in to use this feature

Log In

Don't have an account? Sign Up Today

Another excellent a la carte item is the quesabirria, a blend of a quesadilla and birria, the meat stew from the Jalisco region of Mexico that…

If the place is called El Pollo Ranchero, it's a safe bet you can't go wrong with the pollo.

Shakira pleads with paparazzi to stop following her children

Lena Dunham 'grateful' for five years of sobriety

Lena Dunham 'grateful' for five years of sobriety

The Beckhams celebrate son Brooklyn's first wedding anniversary to Nicola Peltz

The Beckhams celebrate son Brooklyn's first wedding anniversary to Nicola Peltz

You don't have any notifications.

Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.