Skip to main contentThis Amy Amalia Painting in Shanika Hillocks’s Apartment Started as an Instagram CrushThis Amy Amalia Painting in Shanika Hillocks’s Apartment Started as an Instagram CrushThe Harlem-based consultant could teach a master class on creating intentional spacesAll products featured on Architectural Digest are independently selected by our editors. However, when you buy something through our retail links, we may earn an affiliate commission. What makes a purchase “worth it”? The answer is different for everybody, so we’re asking some of the coolest, most shopping-savvy people we know—from small-business owners to designers, artists, and actors—to tell us the story behind one of their most prized possessions.It’s impossible to deny that Shanika Hillocks knows how to curate a vibe. Her Instagram page, a place of intentional energy and intimate connection, feels like a joyful celebration of authenticity. With a background in food and wine, the marketing and brand consultant takes her home decor seriously, as any veritable vibe curator would. Building her home base in what she describes as a “thoughtfully renovated brownstone in Harlem,” Shanika has even blessed the space with its own hashtag: #SugarHillocks (a clever combination of her name and the historic district of Sugar Hill, bordering Jackie Robinson Park, which she calls home). Inspired by what she identifies as “a personal calling to pay attention,” Shanika began to explore her personal relationship to art during the early months of the pandemic. Like the rest of her space, she knew it would have to be intentional, curated, and deeply personal. It was at the opening of Nicole Vassell’s Gallery, a Black-woman-owned gallery in Chelsea, where Shanika met a longtime Instagram connection, Cierra Britton, that would lead to her initial investment in art. “A few months later, I was scrolling Instagram and was captivated by a series of posts Cierra had just posted: warm golden yellow, piercing eyes, rich black, and the artist Amy Amalia, tagged,” Shanika shares. As she explored the artist, the connections seemed particularly kismet. Like Shanika, Amy is Guyanese-American and New York–based. “The work in her Black Sun series centers on this idea of self-reflection and soul alchemy, two things that resonate deeply with me,” Shanika explains. Working with oil on cradled wood panel, Amy Amalia’s work feels lifelike and animated. The gravity of the piece was a natural fit with the historic details of her home. Preserved original wood and fixtures in Shanika’s apartment make for great character but little blank wall space–especially in the living room. Still, she knew she wanted the piece to hang in conversation with “the colorways and textures of my furniture, and the charm of the fixtures like the mantle, crown molding, and windows.”When it comes to acquiring art, Shanika leads with her heart. “When it feels good, you just know,” she says. This looks like “a combination of images from my childhood, with my family members, pieces from travel, and works from artists of the African diaspora.”When one’s home is a mirror of their values, as is the case with Shanika, the objects that fill the space only tell half of the story. Shanika’s hope is that guests who enter her slice of Harlem brownstone feel “comfortable, like themselves, and taken care of.” The bright work by Amy Amalia sits next to a sage velvet sofa and a brass coffee table. This welcoming ethos continues to guide the pieces that furnish her space and make their way into the vibe that’s become synonymous with Shanika Hillocks.