IRELAND is set to enjoy mild weather over the next few days before conditions switch up.

A weather expert has said some parts of the country will see rain today, putting a temporary end to the nice weather.

Alan O’Reilly from Carlow Weather took to Twitter to share the update.

He tweeted: “Sun rising over another nice morning but cloud will increase through the morning.

"Staying dry until showers push into the South late this afternoon with risk of heavy showers later this evening in the Southwest.”

Meanwhile, Met Eireann’s latest forecast says that today will be cloudy, with sunny spells improving as the day goes on.

The national forecaster said: "Today will be rather cloudy with sunny spells improving later in the day. Mainly dry with the chance of an isolated shower.

"Highest temperatures of 11C to 13C in mostly moderate easterly winds, fresh at times near the east and south coast."

Tonight, showers will push in affecting southern and southwestern counties, remaining clear and dry elsewhere.

Lowest temperatures will plummet to between 2C to 5C.

Tomorrow, Thursday is set to be dry and sunny. Highest temperatures will reach between 11C and 14C.

Tomorrow night will see temperatures plummet to between 2C and 5C.

Moving on to Friday, the start of the day is set to be mainly dry and sunny.

Through the morning, cloud will increase with patchy outbreaks of rain and drizzle developing through the afternoon and evening.

This will develop over the southern half of the country, while isolated showers develop further north.

Highest temperatures will reach between 13C and 14C.

Friday night will be cloudy in the east and south, with patchy rain and drizzle.

It will remain dry and clear for a time in the west and northwest before cloud increases overnight.  Lowest temperatures will fall between 2C and 3C.

Met Eireann said Saturday will be mostly cloudy with showers and longer spells of rain.

Highest temperatures will fall to between 11C and 13C.

Sunday will start off dry, though afternoon showers will develop.

As winds become northerly throughout the course of the day, it will turn colder.

Highest temperatures will fall somewhere between 9C and 14C in the south.

According to the latest forecasts, it appears that conditions may turn frosty overnight on Sunday night as a cold northerly airflow moves in.

Current indications suggest a cold but mainly dry outlook for the start of next week, with rain arriving from the west midweek.