Something went wrong, please try again later.

Never miss a big story in Derry again with our FREE email updates

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Never miss a big story in Derry again with our FREE email updates

Hillary Clinton was greeted by smiling schoolchildren and waving crowds as she visited a shared education campus in Co Derry on Wednesday.

The former First Lady and Democratic Party presidential nominee was in Limavady to visit a 'shared education campus' as part of an event organised by Queen's University, Belfast.

The former US secretary of state was in Northern Ireland as part of a series of events to mark the 25th anniversary of the Good Friday Agreement.

Read more: Bill Clinton quotes Lyra McKee and urges Derry audience to 'say goodbye to bomb and bullet'

In Limavady, she presided over an honorary graduation ceremony to mark the contribution St Mary’s High School principal Rita Moore, and Limavady High School principal Darren Mornin in the development of the 'shared education' model.

The former First Lady also met with local politicians, including Causeway Coast and Glens Mayor Ivor Wallace and the local MLAs Alan Robinson, Claire Sugden and Caoimhe Archibald.

The two schools are next door neighbours on Irish Green Street in Limavady and have, for years, worked closely alongside one another.

The co-operative model and sharing of resources by the two schools has been hailed as a leading example of the shared education model.

Mark Baker Chief Executive of the Controlled Schools’ Support Council said: “As we recognise the achievements of Limavady High School and St. Mary’s High School and the difference shared education has made for generations of children and young people as well as the local Limavady community, it reinforces the need for a vision and strategy for education that includes everyone working together and all voices being listened to.

“Shared education provides the opportunity for pupils from different backgrounds to come together, forge new friendships, experiences and access to a broader range of learning opportunities. CSSC supports our children and young people being educated together and believe that shared education is critical in our changing society.”

He added: “Personally, I congratulate Darren and Rita. Today is a fitting testament to the legacy of these innovative school leaders and their predecessors.”

Michael Keenan, Council for Catholic Maintained Schools Director of Education said: “I am delighted to join with St Mary’s High School and their colleagues from Limavady High School, on this special occasion which acknowledges the efforts of the principals to promote inclusion and mutual understanding.”

“There is a temptation to blame schools for divisions and to assume dogmatically that there is only one educational solution to moving beyond a divided society. Limavady Shared Education Campus is a successful model where young people and their families, irrespective of their background, culture, or creed are brought together through shared resources to achieve their full potential.”

He continued: “Today is positive recognition of the immense work of all involved with both schools who faithfully committed to the ideal that in a shared society no child should ever be left behind.”

“Through mutual respect and understanding both schools continue to strive to educate and inspire every young person to develop themselves so that they can contribute to building the diverse society and economy of our shared future.”

Bishop of Derry Donal McKeown, CCMS chair, said: “As Trustee of St Mary’s School and as Chair of the Council for Catholic Maintained Schools, I am delighted to be here in such distinguished company for this important event.”

“Shared Education in Roe Valley has sought a creative local way forward by cherishing diversity and seeing different traditions, not as a threat but as an enrichment. The Shared Education Campus is the culmination of efforts to break down barriers, end division and promote a unified strong society whilst successfully retaining each school’s ethos.”

He continued: “This long-standing educational partnership in Limavady celebrates how both schools can be a blessing on one another. It is thus a challenge to those who would neglect the richness of our increasingly varied identities and propose a vague secularist consensus as a solution to difference. Those who tell people to be ashamed of their traditions and identities do not enrich young minds. They impoverish them.”

Bishop McKeown added: “Today is a great opportunity to thank those who have worked tirelessly in these two schools to build success through collaboration. I thank all those outside Northern Ireland who have encouraged creativity so that our young people might face the future with hope and confidence.”

To get the latest breaking news from Co Derry straight to your inbox, sign up to our free newsletter.