Manchester United are closing on a top-drawer duo and have made FIVE unwanted defenders up for sale, Newcastle are tracking a brilliant Bundesliga duo, while Wednesday’s Euro Paper Talk claims Arsenal are pushing hard to land a new Brazilian striker.

Manchester United boss Erik ten Hag is pushing forwards with two defensive signings this summer, according to reports.

The Red Devils are preparing to back the Dutchman once again with serious cash to push the club closer to the game’s biggest prizes.

And with a return to the Champions League on the cards, the club want to strengthen their squad significantly again.

Top of Ten Hag’s agenda is the capture of a big-name centre forward.

But he also wants to bolster his defence – and he now has two names firmly at the top of his wishlist.

As per the Manchester Evening News, United are holding extensive talks over a deal for Jeremie Frimpong.

And sources close to the club claim the Bayer Leverkusen star is the right-back solution that Ten Hag has settled on. As a result, rival links to the likes of Denzel Dumfries and Vanderson will be abandoned.

Leverkusen will demand a high fee for the 22-year-old, with his deal not expiring until summer 2024. But the Bundesliga side are well aware of United’s interest – and seemingly realise the player wants to make the move.

United are also ready to make a serious play to bring in Kim-min Jae from Napoli.

The South Korean has a €45m exit clause in his deal that becomes active this summer.

And per Fabrizio Romano on the Here We Go podcast, they are the most likely side to exploit it.

“From what I understand Napoli are pushing to extend the contract of Kim,” he said. “But I’m also told that Premier League clubs are attempting it.

“Kim doesn’t want to be distracted with Napoli, but after this week we will be more clear. At the moment, I heard more Man United than Liverpool for Kim Min-Jae, but let’s see, it’s a big opportunity.”

The double deal will likely set Manchester United back a combined €70m (£61.6m) fee.

However, the club plans to claw a large portion of that back by offloading five unwanted defenders this summer.

Three of them have rarely, if not at all, featured under Ten Hag and their exits will come as no surprise.

To that end, the MEN says Eric Bailly, Alex Telles and Brandon Williams will all depart Old Trafford.

Harry Maguire will also be sold to the highest bidder once a deal for Kim is concluded. The South Korean’s arrival will push the England man to fourth choice – an untenable position for their club captain.

And finally, the capture of Frimpong will also free the way for Aaron Wan-Bissaka to move on. He has played his way back into favour under Ten Hag in recent months.

However, he will be deemed surplus to requirements with Frimpong battling Diogo Dalot for a role in the side.

READ MORE ~ Jude Bellingham: Ten Hag stance on Man Utd transfer raid emerges as firm favourites for signature revealed

Newcastle will challenge Arsenal and Borussia Dortmund to the signing of Eintracht Frankfurt midfielder Jesper Lindstrom. (Ekstra Bladet)

The Magpies are also looking to make Bayer Leverkusen midfielder Florian Wirtz one of their top targets this summer. (various)

Fulham are targeting a summer move for Mateus Uribe amid claims Liverpool target Joao Palhinha will be sold this summer. Lazio are competing with the Cottagers to sign the Colombian midfielder. (Corriere dello Sport)

Ilkay Gundogan admits he’s held talks with Barcelona over a summer move but insists no decision has been reached yet. (Sport)

Olivier Giroud is on the brink of signing a new deal with AC Milan, earning him around €3.5m net plus add-ons, until June 2024. (Calciomercato)

West Ham, Aston Villa and Everton are all tracking Joaquin Correa amid claims Inter Milan are willing to sell. (Inter Live)

Olympique Marseille are opting against triggering the buy option in Eric Bailly’s contract to leave Manchester United saddled with his £80,000 a week wages once again. (Fabrizio Romano)

Leicester are ready to battle Newcastle and Liverpool for Torino defender Perr Schuurs – if they avoid relegation. (Inter Live)

PSG are ready to go all out to sign Harry Kane this summer and will make the Tottenham star their No 1 target to replace Lionel Messi. (Le Parisien)

Sadio Mane’s future at Bayern is under increasing doubt after fining him €350k for punching Leroy Sane. The punishment is the biggest one ever handed out in the club’s history. (Bild)

Barcelona are increasingly confident of securing the return of Lionel Messi with the playing squad ‘convinced’ his move is imminent. Furthermore, club chiefs reckon Messi’s comeback will drive up club income by 25%. (Sport)

Jose Mourinho is likely to leave Roma with PSG willing to offer him a lucrative deal to become their new coach. (RMC Sport)

Burnley are ready to take up the €15m option to make Jordan Beyer’s loan from Borussia Monchengladbach permanent. (Bild)

Liverpool are reportedly in pole position to sign Ajax defender Jurrien Timber with the star’s girlfriend reportedly house-hunting on Merseyside. (various)

Rafa Leao insists he has no interest in leaving AC Milan amid claims Arsenal are plotting a move for his services. (Sky Italia)

The Gunners, though, are plotting a big approach to beat Barcelona to the signing of Athletico Paranaense striker Vitor Roque. (Foot Mercato)

Leeds are on the brink of sealing the signing of Barcelona winger Ilias Akhomach who is out of contract this summer. (Sport)

Raphinha’s future at Barcelona is not in any immediate threat amid claims Xavi is unhappy with the Brazilian’s attitude. (Fabrizio Romano)

Toni Kroos insists “everything is on track” as he prepares to sign a new deal with Real Madrid to keep him there until summer 2024. (Marca)

Osasuna are looking to take youngster Estanis Pedrola from Barcelona as part of the deal that will see Ez Abde return to the Nou Camp. (Mundo Deportivo)

Reiss Nelson will pick between eight clubs this summer with two Italian sides – Atalanta and Roma – seemingly at the front of the queue for the Arsenal star. (Tuttomercatoweb)