W Abu Dhabi is the epitome of luxury and gastronomical delights for the guests. But apart from providing the amenities, W Abu Dhabi is here with a surprise that will be your foodie escape. A Turkish Chef, Ahmet Dede is opening up a gourmet pop-up at this venue and we are all thrilled to check out the items.

The anticipation to taste some of the best Turkish dishes is rising among us. Th The celebrated chef will make some of his most delectable Turkish delicacies for the special Ramadan iftar event between Wednesday, April 12, and Sunday, April 16 2023. Come and bring your family and friends to break your fast with some deliciously prepared Turkish food.

Turkish chef Dede, who was born and reared there, travelled to Ireland at the age of 25 to further his culinary training. In 2020, the chef debuted his restaurant, Dede, in The Customs House in Ireland. He started his business after completing his education while working with some of the most renowned figures in the industry.

Dede is well recognised for his passion for regional specialities and traditional Turkish meals, which he expertly combines to produce mouthwatering dishes like Manti lobster, rack of lamb in Ottoman style, and blood-orange and cardamom Turkish treat.

Where to spot him and the Turkish delicacies? Well, head straight to the W Abu Dhabi’s Garage restaurant.

Also Read: CZN Burak Is Bringing A Turkish-Influenced All-Day Breakfast Scene To Dubai

Inside the renowned W Abu Dhabi lies this Haute spot, Garage, flocked by epicures from the region. People with a fine taste for food enjoy its varied blend of Middle Eastern appetisers from Mezza Bar, Japanese and Peruvian cuisine from Nikkei House, and Asian street food from Steam Table. Do you know what’s precious for gourmands in here? Meat! Hence you will find a meat vault here where steak enthusiasts can get the ideal piece of USDA or Wagyu prime beef. Fancy, isn’t it? The Tart Van, renowned for its delicious nostalgic pastries, is the fifth gastronomic event. People also visit here to enjoy the Saturday B. I.G., Brunch In Garage. Enough of food, let’s talk about beverages now. The restaurant serves handpicked draught beer, wine, and unique cocktails on tap.

I guess, we have provided ample reasons to visit this restaurant in W Abu Dhabi now!