Laughter is truly the best medicine! Humorous Day is celebrated on April 19 every year, dedicated to finding humor in whatever situation comes your way, no matter how hard or difficult it is.

This day encourages people to look on the bright side of life. It is a reminder that with humor, laughter, and an optimistic attitude, one can easily overcome the hardships of life. Laughter has been shown to improve not only mental health but also physical health.

National Let's Laugh Day: Funny quotes and facts to make you chuckle

International Day of Happiness: History, quotes and ways to make your loved ones happy

During the unprecedented events in our lives, this day encourages people to wear a smile no matter what.

Enjoying a laugh with others helps keep relationships fresh, exciting, and fun. Laughter also helps improve communication and may be just what you need to overcome disagreements, hurts, and resentments. A user on Twitter wrote, "Humans are celebrating the #humorousday on April 19th. That's #humorous"

Humor also helps relieve stress and burn calories. It relieves pain, lowers blood sugar levels, promotes glucose tolerance in both diabetics and non-diabetics, increases employee productivity, and fosters community.

When we see or hear something funny, our dopamine pleasure centers and connections in our brains are activated.

1. Notice good things as they happen. Write them down in a journal or keep track using a motivational app on your phone or tablet.

2.  Acknowledge your achievements! Get in a habit of telling yourself specific things you can do to succeed. For example, "If I study, I can get a better grade." "If I practice, I'll perform well at the audition." "If I go on that volunteer trip, I'll meet new friends."

3. Appreciate yourself! When something good happens, give yourself credit. Think of what you did to make a good outcome possible. You can also give yourself a gift.

4. Nothing is permanent! As soon as something goes wrong, remind yourself that it will pass and come up with a plan for making that happen.

5. Choose your peer group wisely. We all have those friends who are chronic complainers or gossipers. Stay away from them.