Over the past five years, the rental market has experienced some major changes, with new data revealing that some suburbs have increased in price by as much as 200%.

Throughout the pandemic, tenants abandoned the cities in favour of the regions only to return more recently as borders and workplaces re-opened.

Currently, the climate for tenants searching for a home is tough, with the national vacancy rate sitting at 1.47%, which is the lowest level recorded since well before the pandemic.

Meanwhile, the latest days on market data from PropTrack shows rental listings nationally only lasted a median of 18 days on realestate.com.au in March before being snapped up, which is a week faster than what it was pre-pandemic.

Use our interactive to see if your suburb's rental price has increased.

Senior PropTrack economist Paul Ryan said fierce tenant competition for available rental properties is leading to price increases across the country, with no relief in sight.

"Conditions at the moment point to continued strong rent price increases…the lack of rental stock relative to continued strong demand means that in the short term, we will continue to see rents increase strongly all across the country, but particularly in capital cities.

“This is tough news for renters, with these financial pressures adding to the cost-of-living increases from high inflation."

Since 2018, regional areas have recorded the biggest rental increases nationally. Rent prices for houses in the New South Wales town of Sussex Inlet increased 172.86% in the period, growing from $350 per week to $955 per week, while rental prices for units in Echuca in northern Victoria jumped a whopping 205.19%, rising from $270 per week to $824.

Mr Ryan said this growth is a result of several factors including the desire for larger homes and more outdoor space among tenants.

"We have seen, particularly since the pandemic, strong pushes for space, whether that be for home offices, larger gardens or room for pets, renters have demanded larger homes, which have benefited outer ring suburbs and regional areas,” he said.

"These preference shifts have continued since the pandemic and we see continued strong rental demand for these regions."

CEO of Tenants Union NSW, Leo Patterson Ross said he's been hearing from a lot of tenants struggling to keep up with the price rises and many are going into rental stress, meaning they're paying more than 30% of their income towards rent.

"We have been hearing from people from an increasing range of places and backgrounds who are really struggling to find a new home in their price range and location as well as people facing rent increases that are really stretching their budget.

"We've also been hearing from people who are being evicted in order for a rent hike to occur, even though they felt they would be better off paying the increase."

Mr Patterson Ross added that as conditions worsen, many renters have compromised on important factors including location, quality and some have even considered share housing.

"Location, especially in regional areas, is something people try to avoid compromising on because it means they might be unable to sustain jobs, relationships and more, but we are hearing from people moving further away from their desired locations," he said.

Jump to the results for your state or territory:

The highest increase for rental houses in the country was recorded in regional NSW with prices in Sussex Inlet rising 172.86% over the five year period.

Large increases were also found in suburbs along the state's picturesque coastline including Casuarina, Sapphire Beach, North Avoca and Byron Bay, which all made the top ten list for house price growth.

Beachside locations were also popular for tenants seeking units, especially during Covid, which has led to significant price increases.

Units in Bogangar, which is about 40 minutes drive from Byron Bay, experienced a 64.29% increase in price along with units in the nearby suburbs of Alstonville and Kingscliff, which had increases of 56.25% and 55.56%, respectively.

The lure of the coast and greener pastures amid Melbourne’s strict lockdowns also led to tenants paying more in regional suburbs.

Sorrento had the largest increase in price in the state for houses with a 79.63% jump over the five years, with tenants now paying a median of $970 per week. Neighbouring suburb Blairgowrie experienced the second highest increase, with house rents rising by 70.51%.

Regional suburbs including North Wongthaggi, Cape Paterson and Portland also saw increases of more than 60% for houses, while Echuca had the highest price rise for units in the state, with an apartment there now attracting a median of $834 per week.

A shift to the Sunshine State during lockdowns contributed to skyrocketing rental prices across Queensland and they haven’t stopped.

Houses in Barney Point increased by 100% and Calliope, Sunshine Beach, Miami and Mermaid Beach all experienced increases above 90%. Median prices for units in beautiful Tannum Sands rose by 103.13%

In Mermaid Beach, the median rent is now an eye-watering $1,350 per week up from $700 back in 2018.

Known as the state 'shielded' from Covid lockdowns, Western Australia grew in popularity among tenants for the freedom it offered as well as its stunning natural surrounds.

The state recorded some of the largest growth in rent prices nationally, with the median price for a house in Waterford jumping 85.71% over the five year period. Meanwhile, units in Mount Pleasant increased by 66.67%.

Local Waterford agent, Dean Sims principal at Bellcourt South Perth said there’s a lot to love about the waterside suburb.

“It has great accessibility – Curtin University is within walking distance, and UWA and Murdoch University are easily accessible by car or public transport,” he said.

“The suburb is known for having large family houses on big blocks and it’s a quiet area.”

Mr Sims added that over the past five years he has noticed a big shift in interest for Waterford from renters, which has seen prices follow.

“We’ve noticed many families and renters in general wanting larger homes and more outdoor space.

“Waterford is also better value than surrounding suburbs such as South Perth and Como, but still provides access to the same amenities,” he explained.

In addition to the increase in lifestyle interest, Mr Ryan said that the rise in price could also come down to a lack of supply.

"Western Australia underwent a lot of development in the early 2010s – since that point demand has caught up to this supply, which has put increased pressure on rental prices. So WA started from a relatively low starting point."

As prices continue to climb amid the rental crisis in major cities, more tenants are looking to South Australia for respite.

A recent PropTrack report on listings under $400 per week found that 18.40% of listings in Greater Adelaide met this threshold.

However, with interest in the area growing, so too are the prices. Units in Paradise grew by 57.89% and 52.73% in Campbelltown, which means tenants in these suburbs are now paying $450 and $420 per week respectively.

Tasmania has been growing in popularity among tenants for years as the evolving food, drink and art scene draws in the crowds.

Units in Tasmania have attracted the largest price growth over the past five years.

"Hobart has seen a boom over the past five years. Demand for homes has increased significantly, and prices and rents have followed," said Mr Ryan.

"This was evident well before the pandemic, and as housing supply has struggled to catch up, rent price increases and shortages have put a lot of pressure on many households in Hobart."

Apartments in Claremont and Blackmans Bay had the second and third largest price growth in the country with a 64.71% and 60.61% increase, respectively.

Units in Glenorchy, West Moonah, and Lenah Valley also experienced price growth above 50%.

Houses in Yarralumla had the biggest price growth over the five-year period in the ACT with an increase of 79.28%, rising to a median of $1,125 per week.

Units in Holt increased by 48.57% to $520 per week.

Houses in Woodroffe had the largest growth in median rent over the five-year period with an increase of 30.95%, hitting a median of $550 per week.

Meanwhile, units in Rapid Creek grew by 33.33%, rising to a median of $480 per week.