Sarah Ferguson has been snapped looking animated while promoting her books in London following claims she has not been invited to King Charles' upcoming Coronation due to 'previous conduct'.

The Duchess of York attended the London Book Fair in Olympia today, where she discussed her various works of fiction including her novels and children's books.

And the 63-year-old royal appeared lively as she opened up about her writing during a meet and greet session at the literary event.

She opted for a simple but stylish look, donning a black belted blazer with a mandarin collar over a red and black maxi skirt.

Sarah completed the ensemble with a pair of heeled black suede knee high boots, and an elegant half-up, half-down hair style and classic make-up look.

The royal has recently made a number of appearances while promoting her most recent novel A Most Intriguing Lady.

During one interview, she revealed she was pleased that her writing career had taken off, giving her another 'claim to fame' aside marrying into the royal family.

In an interview with OK! magazine, the royal said her new career ensured that marrying into the Firm was no longer her 'only claim to fame'.

She said: 'I feel very proud to have embarked on a new career in my sixties.

'Not many people get that opportunity. Now having married into the royal family isn’t my only claim to fame, I'm an author who has made the Sunday Times Bestsellers List. It feels like this is my time. It is very liberating.'

Sarah's appearance at today's book fair follows recent reports that the royal will not be attending King Charles' Coronation next month.

It was reported last week that the Duchess of York is not expected to attend the event next month – despite the fact Princess Beatrice and Princess Eugenie are set to be there.

And experts claimed King Charles decided to not invite Sarah to the historic event because she is an 'embarrassment' and no longer a member of the Royal Family.

Royal commentator Tom Bower previously told MailOnline that Sarah had excluded herself because of her earlier 'conduct'.

He added that her presence would 'provoke critical comment which Charles doesn't need'.

And expert Richard Fitzwilliams praised the 'extremely wise' decision from the King because she has been an 'embarrassment to the Royal Family for many years'.

But the apparent decision has surprised some royal watchers – with Meghan's friend Omid Scobie tweeting: 'If true, this feels kinda cruel, no?'

Speaking about the absence of Sarah, Mr Bower said she will be left out 'because she is not a member of the Royal Family'.

He added that she had excluded herself 'by her past conduct', saying: 'Her presence would provoke critical comment which Charles doesn't need.'

Among Sarah's most embarrassing moments was when photographs were published showing her having her toes sucked by her financial adviser John Bryan at her holiday villa in St Tropez.

The pair were also seen kissing, embracing and frolicking in the pool.

She was also said to have had a rift with her once good friend, Princess Diana, after she claimed she got a verruca after borrowing a pair of her shoes.

They were reportedly still not speaking at the time of Diana's death in 1997.

And in 2010 she apologised after being secretly recorded offering to sell access to Andrew in return for £500,000.

Mr Fitzwilliams told MailOnline: 'The decision not to invite Sarah Ferguson is extremely wise and to be welcomed. She has been an embarrassment to the Royal Family for many years.

'Time and again she gives embarrassing interviews, there seems no end to it.

'There are times when a dignified silence is required which she seems incapable of.'

Sarah did attend the Queen's funeral at Westminster Abbey last September, but was not one of the 30 guests for Prince Philip's funeral in April 2021.

She was spotted for the first time since news broke she wouldn't be attending the Coronation at the weekend.

Sarah cut a solemn figure as she was spotted leaving the Royal Lodge in Windsor following the snub.

The 63-year-old was seen in the passenger seat of a Range Rover driven by her ex-husband Prince Andrew.

The mother-of-two was dressed casually in a tan blazer, shirt and black circular glasses.

Meanwhile, Prince Andrew, 63, was sporting a navy jumper over a red shirt as he drove the 4x4 out of the complex.