(MENAFN- Kashmir Observer)

Srinagar-  Two senior bureaucrats from Jammu and Kashmir have been selected for the prestigious Prime Minister's Award for Excellence in Public Administration-2022.

Dr. Shahid Choudhary and Dr. Syed Sehrish Asgar have been selected in the category of Innovation and Aspirational District. Both of them belong to J&K.

A 2009 batch officer, Choudhary is posted as Secretary of the Tribal Affairs Department, and Director of J&K Mission Youth, and Skill Development Missions.

Dr. Sehrish Asgar, who has served in various departments, including the Directorate of information and public relations (DIPR) is currently posted as Deputy Commissioner of Baramulla, in north Kashmir,

The news about the Choudhary and Dr Sehrish was broken by the Union Territory Lieutenant Governor, Manoj Sinha on his official Twitter handle.

“Congratulations & best wishes to @MissionYouth_JK, @listenshahid, Dist. Baramulla, @DrSyedSehrish for prestigious Prime Minister's Award for Excellence in Public Administration-2022 in category of Innovation (State) and Aspirational District Programme respectively. Keep it up!,” Sinha Tweeted.

Meanwhile, in a handout issued here, an official spokesperson said that Dr Sehrish has been selected for this prestigious achievement in the category of Aspirational Districts programme as she has brought transformative changes in the identified parameters envisaged in the said programme.

As per reports, key aspects for Aspirational District Programme in Baramulla for which the Deputy Commissioner was awarded by the Prime Minister include establishment of Birth Waiting Wards in Primary Health Centres, Community Health Centres, Upgradation of diagnostic services at all delivery points and Poshan Tracker Tabs for all Anganwadi workers.

“The Deputy Commissioner supported farmers through mechanism, plant protection, nursery strengthening, robust root stocks, quality planning material etc and organized marketing facility established at Sopore which is the second largest Fruit Mandi in Asia,” the spokesperson said.

“Severe Acute Malnutrition has been reduced in the district to 0.01 percent from 3 percent and Moderate Acute Malnutrition to 0.039 percent from 11.93 percent. A two-year paramedical diploma course has been introduced for 300 border area students to fill up the critical gap in the health sector,” he added.

follow this link to join our whatsapp group   :   join now