A Tech Industry Pioneer Sees a Way for the U. S. to Lead in Advanced Chips

Post Office can be used for savings as 400 bank branches to close

Netflix's cheapest subscription has received a major free upgrade – and people are switching to save money | The Sun

League of Legends fans are just realising the latest buffed and nerfed champions in 13.8 patch | The Sun

Woman earns up to £3,000 a month through ‘exciting’ new career

If you’re ready to fight your family for money, this will help

Homeowners ‘pushed to the brink’ as inflation remains above 10%

Netflix's cheapest subscription has received a major free upgrade – and people are switching to save money | The Sun

NETFLIX has revealed a huge change to its cheapest subscription plan – and it could save you money.

The streaming giant's ad-supported option has just become a whole lot more worthwhile.

At launch, the new £4.99 tier was restricted to one screen at a time and would only play at 720p quality.

But the Stranger Things maker is upgrading both of those for free.

And it could tempt you to downgrade, effectively saving you money.

Firstly, the company has revealed that the video quality will be boosted to 1080p.

Netflix to charge users ‘in weeks’ for password sharing in crackdown

Netflix trick checks who has access to your account as new charges roll out

And better still, you'll now be able to use it on two screens at once instead of just one.

Users in Canada and Spain will be first to benefit.

And the UK and US will follow later this month.

The move comes as more streaming services launch ad-supported plans in a bid to cut customer costs.

Netflix to charge users 'in weeks' for password sharing in crackdown

The 'creepy' website that can find EVERY photo of you online in seconds

Mysterious ‘portal-like’ blue swirl appears in sky over US

You could have 20/20 vision if you can tell which of these tasty treats is fake

Disney+ has launched its own version, though it's yet to land in the UK.

The news comes as Netflix also revealed that its long-awaited password sharing crackdown roll out will be delayed until the summer.

A ban on users giving their account to people who live outside their household was expected to arrive around March or April.

Elsewhere, the firm has announced that it's closing down their mail DVD rental service after 25 years.

Best Phone and Gadget tips and hacks

Looking for tips and hacks for your phone? Want to find those secret features within social media apps? We have you covered…

How to delete your Instagram account

What does pending mean on Snapchat?

How to check if you've been blocked on WhatsApp

How to drop a pin on Google Maps

How can I change my Facebook password?

How to go live on TikTok

How to clear the cache on an iPhone

What does Meta mean?

Get all the latest WhatsApp, Instagram, Facebook and other tech gadget stories here.

We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online Tech & Science team? Email us at [email protected]

Oklahoma Gov. Kevin Stitt speaking to reporters in Tulsa in September 2020. Photo: Jabin Botsford/The Washington Post via Getty Images...

A Tech Industry Pioneer Sees a Way for the U. S. to Lead in Advanced Chips

Netflix's cheapest subscription has received a major free upgrade – and people are switching to save money | The Sun

League of Legends fans are just realising the latest buffed and nerfed champions in 13.8 patch | The Sun

Barclays is offering 5.12 percent interest with its Rainy Day Saver, which is intended to be an emergency fund that...

Post Office can be used for savings as 400 bank branches to close

Woman earns up to £3,000 a month through ‘exciting’ new career

We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.