Cockermouth Titans gave Wath Brow A a stern test in their Holmen Iggesund Cumberland ARL fixture at Highfield.

Wath Brow have emerged as main rivals to champions Distington while the Titans are reviving after having to finish last season early.

Cockermouth had started particularly well and led for most of the first-half and it was only really in the final quarter of the game that the Hornets pulled clear to win 28-12.

Regan Tinnion and Alex Barton scored tries for Cockermouth with Ryan Scott kicking two goals.

Wath Brow maintained their winning start to the season with tries from Peter Caddy, Luke Jeremy, Luke Davison, Daley Stables, Jack Casey and Jamie Devine. Devan Sharp landed two conversions.

Cockermouth’s man of the match was Jamie Lightfoot while Kieran Eldon took the award for Wath Brow A.

Champions Distington, however, will still be the team to beat and they proved too strong for Lowca as they won 42-0, after being 26-0 clear at half-time.

It took them only four minutes to take the lead with a try from Nicky Cook and in fact he had completed a hat-trick with further touchdowns in the ninth and 20th minutes. Stephen Clark converted two of them.

Before half-time Clark had scored a try and converted it while Andy Hunter also crossed the Lowca line.

Both sides were reduced to 12 men when Tyrone Dalton (Distington) and Jamie Haile (Lowca) were sent to the sin bin for fighting.

In the second half Distington added tries by Scott George (52), man of the match Jack Penrice (56) and Harrison Riley (67). Clark converted two of them.

Lowca’s man of the match was Mitchell Todd.

Biggest winners of the weekend were Kells A who beat Ellenborough A 64 – 0 with Aaron Burns, back on dual registration from Workington Town leading the way with four tries and eight goals.

Blaine Graham had given Kells the lead with a try after six minutes before Corey Chambers followed him over three minutes later.

Burns scored a brace in the 19th and 25th minutes while in between Graham had also crossed the Elbra whitewash.

It was business as usual for Kells a minute into the second half with a second try for Chambers with Burns completing his hat-trick two minutes later.

Jamie Jennings got in on the act by scoring twice in the 50th and 53rd minutes and Kells continued to dominate with further tries by man of the match Martin O’Neil (58), Burns (65) and Bailey Morton (67).

Ellenborough A’s man of the match was Charlie Scott.

Seaton A were unable to raise a team for their game at Egremont A while Hensingham A v Glasson Rangers was called-off because of a waterlogged pitch.