Some people hate it when they see someone wearing something they own or, worse still, buying something they own having seen it on them. I, on the other hand, take it as a personal triumph. At the end of last year, I bought a bag from Uniqlo, a half moon-shaped cross-body made of nylon with two internal pockets and an adjustable strap. A few days later, I went to a breakfast meeting and, lo and behold, someone was wearing the exact bag in black. I was onto something - and, clearly, I’m not alone.

According to the latest Lyst Index, the global search platform's quarterly report which ranks fashion’s hottest brands and products, Uniqlo’s Round Mini Shoulder Bag has rocketed to number one, beating cult buys from Rick Owens, SKIMS, Bottega Veneta and Alaïa. While it’s not unusual to see a high street brand make the top 10 - last quarter featured a shearling-lined pair of Dr. Martens - it’s quite something for the product to clock in at less than £20.

Besides the price, which is certainly a welcome change from most ‘It’ bags, what is it about this bag?! Well, its capacity, for starters. I can personally attest to the fact that you can fit a lot inside - i.e. a passport, my phone, bank cards and a hardback book - without it breaking so much as a seam in the process.

It’s also the fact that you can walk with your hands in your pockets and not worry about something constantly slipping off your arm (the strap can also be adjusted depending on whether you like your cross-body to sit on your hip or underneath your armpit). And, oh wait, the main reason is actually because on TikTok, this bag is A Big Deal. Seriously, search #uniqloviralbag and you'll see many, many videos, some of which involve how many things you can squeeze inside (@elenatea_ managed to get a journal, a digital camera, a phone, a powder compact, a make-up bag, a wallet and a pair of sunglasses inside - and still managed to zip it up). It’s currently only available in navy, still for the princely sum of £14.90. Seriously, don’t hang about, it’s as magical as something out of Mary Poppins.