The Broncos bounced back to prove they are a different beast this season on the back of another Payne Haas masterclass.

Meanwhile, the Roosters’ attack has gone missing in recent weeks and the Storm were beaten at their own game by Manly in a brutal encounter.

Read on for the NRL Power Rankings after Round 7.

Watch every game of every round of the 2023 NRL Telstra Premiership Season LIVE on Kayo Sports. New to Kayo? Start your free trial now >

Analysis: The Tigers finally got on the board with two points for the bye, but they won’t get off the bottom of the power rankings until they can notch that elusive first win.

There were signs in their last start 28-22 loss to the Eels that the Tigers may have turned a corner, but unfortunately they come up against top four teams the Sea Eagles and the Panthers in the next two weeks.

Adding to their woes is a long-term injury to Adam Doueihi so the Tigers will have change their spine yet again and inconsistency in key positions rarely equals wins in the NRL.

REBUILD: How Ciraldo-Gould partnership plans to return Bulldogs to title contenders

Last week’s rank: 14th (down two spots)

Analysis: The Bulldogs are in the midst of the worst injury crisis in the NRL with a whopping 11 players and over a third of their first grade squad currently sidelined.

Canterbury were outclassed 30-4 by their arch rivals the Eels and Reed Mahoney and Matt Burton will need to do a lot more to carry the load without some of their best attacking players in the coming weeks.

Unfortunately it doesn’t get any easier for Cameron Ciraldo’s undermanned side when they come up against the resurgent Sharks in Round 8 and they will struggle to compete until they get some troops back on deck.

Get all the latest NRL news, highlights and analysis delivered straight to your inbox with Fox Sports Sportmail. Sign up now!!

Last week’s rank: 16th (up one spot)

Analysis: The Dragons were woeful against an equally clunky Raiders outfit in their 20-14 loss in Round 7, with the first half nearly finishing scoreless for the first time in the NRL in two years.

A team sheet selection bungle and a hit-up on the last play of the game were evidence of where this team and club is at, at the moment as pressure builds on under fire coach Anthony Griffin.

On a bright note Tyrell Sloan was the best player on the field for the Dragons last week, but it wasn’t a hot field and they will need a lot more across the park just to compete with the hungry Roosters on ANZAC Day.

Last week’s rank: 15th (up one spot)

Analysis: The Cowboys have been the most disappointing team in the NRL this season given they were 20 minutes away from a grand final last year and things didn’t improve in a 22-14 loss to the Warriors.

Chad Townsend and Tom Dearden have failed to reach the heights of last year as a halves pairing, while the pack that was so dangerous on both sides of the ball last year looks a shell of the 2022 version.

A knee injury to skipper Jason Taumalolo won’t help the Cowboys’ chances of getting back on track when they host the Knights at home on Saturday night.

Last week’s rank: 11th (down two spots)

Analysis: The Titans were the better team in the first half against the Broncos, but were outclassed in the second in a convincing 43-26 loss.

A tough sin bin to skipper Tino Fa’asuamaleaui didn't help their cause, but the Titans need more from their pack apart from their captain, Moe Fotuaika and David Fifita who can hold their heads high.

Justin Holbrook has a challenge to get fullbacks AJ Brimson and Jayden Campbell in the side when both are fit and they need to beat the Dolphins in Round 8 to keep in touch with the top eight.

Analysis: After a slow start to the year, the Eels have now won back-to-back games following their convincing 30-4 win over an admittedly undermanned Bulldogs outfit.

The return of Shaun Lane added some stability to the back row and with Reagan Campbell-Gillard in superb form, the Eels have a forward pack to be feared again.

The Broncos will be a massive acid test for this side, but if they can beat Brisbane they have a favourable draw in the next month that could see them return to the top eight before the Origin period.

Last week’s rank: 13th (up two spots)

Analysis: After two losses and a draw in their last three games, Manly answered their critics with a superb showing in their 18-8 win over the Storm.

Daly Cherry-Evans was back to his best with his running game on fire and Tom Trbojevic looked much more dangerous at the back, but Manly’s win was built on some ferocious defence.

If they can maintain the rage defensively, Manly have the attack to trouble most sides and clashes against the Tigers and Titans in the next fortnight should see them cement their top four position on the ladder.

Analysis: After a terrible start to the season the Raiders have now won back-to-back games following their 20-14 win over the Dragons.

It might not have been pretty, but there were plenty of positives including the form of Hudson Young in the back row and Sebastian Kris at fullback, while prop Joseph Tapine was strong in his return.

The Raiders have the bye this weekend and will likely welcome back Xavier Savage for their next clash against the Dolphins, before a clash with the Bulldogs as they bid to close in on the top eight.

Last week’s rank: 5th (down four spots)

Analysis: The Dolphins were the better team in the first half against the Bunnies, but fell away badly to go down 36-14 for their third loss in four starts.

Tom Gilbert and Mark Nicholls were the only forwards to run for over 100 metres and the Dolphins need to control the middle of the field and set more of a platform for their speedsters out wide.

The depth of the Dolphins is starting to be tested, especially in the halves and Wayne Bennett will be looking for a more complete 80-minute performance when they host the Titans on Sunday afternoon.

Last week’s rank: 6th (down two spots)

Analysis: The Roosters looked to be hitting their straps before back-to-back losses to the Storm and the Sharks 22-12 in Round 7, with their attack deserting them in recent weeks.

The Roosters need more from their halfback Sam Walker, while Joey Manu and James Tedesco were far below their best in their returns against Cronulla.

Trent Robinson will no doubt have his side primed for a big ANZAC Day clash against the Dragons as they look to rediscover their form in the lead-in to the Origin period.

Analysis: The Knights put in their best performance of the season to push the premiers all the way, but ultimately Nathan Cleary broke their hearts in a 16-15 golden point loss.

The Knights have been benefiting from a simple game plan built on the effort areas in the absence of skipper Kalyn Ponga, with Lachlan Miller and Tyson Gamble in excellent form in the spine.

It gives Adam O’Brien a welcome headache when Ponga returns, but if the Knights can keep their steel in defence, they will back themselves to beat the struggling Cowboys in Townsville on Saturday night.

Last week’s rank: 9th (up three spots)

Analysis: The Sharks have been hot and cold so far this season, but their gutsy 22-12 win over the Roosters could be the turning point for Craig Fitzgibbon’s side.

With the spine of Nicho Hynes, Matt Moylan, Blayke Brailey and William Kennedy starting to click, the Sharks have the attack to trouble most teams, but Fitzgibbon builds his teams on defence and they were much improved in that area against the Tri-colours.

The Sharks have a favourable draw in the next three weeks against the Bulldogs, Cowboys and Dolphins as they aim to push into the top four.

Last week’s rank: 2nd (down three spots)

Analysis: Just when the Storm were starting to look unbeatable again they were dominated 18-8 by Manly in slippery conditions at Brookvale.

Cameron Munster was quiet at fullback, while Harry Grant was also below his best in attack, but Craig Bellamy put the poor performance down to some dumb plays as Manly battered the Storm physically.

Bellamy never fails to get his team up for ANZAC Day, but a resurgent Warriors team with some new-found steel won’t be the easybeats of recent years in the annual clash.

Last week’s rank: 8th (up four spots)

Analysis: The Warriors bounced back from a disappointing loss to the Knights to beat the Cowboys 22-14 and cement their top four spot.

In years gone by the Warriors would concede this type of game with key spine players Wayde Egan and Te Maire Martin sidelined, but Dylan Walker and Freddy Lussick filled the void and Shaun Johnson’s remarkable resurgence rolled on.

The Warriors have a horror record against the Storm in Melbourne, but if they can cause an ANZAC Day upset, Andrew Webster’s side are undoubtedly the real deal in 2023.

Last week’s rank: 4th (up one spot)

Analysis: The Bunnies were off the boil in the first half against the Dolphins but stormed home in emphatic style for a 36-14 win in an ominous warning to their rivals.

Latrell Mitchell and Cody Walker are starting to look scary in attack and Damien Cook is back to his best with his running game, which is unlocking Souths’ threats right across the park.

An injury to Keaon Koloamatangi placed further strain on Souths’ forward stocks heading into a mammoth three weeks against the Panthers, Broncos and Storm, but the time for excuses is over and Jason Demetriou’s team need to start beating the competition’s best teams if they want to go all the way.

Last week’s rank: 1st (down one spot)

Analysis: The class of Nathan Cleary saved the Panthers’ blushes in a 16-15 golden point great escape against the Knights, but even coach Ivan Cleary admitted it was Penrith’s worst performance of the season.

The Panthers are missing James Fisher-Harris’ influence up front, while Liam Martin looks set for another sideline stint after aggravating his hamstring injury and Penrith need more of a platform from their forwards to unlock their outside speedsters.

Penrith have a superb recent record against their next opponents South Sydney, including a 16-10 win in Round 2, but they will need to be a lot better than they were against the Knights to continue their dominance over the Bunnies.

Last week’s rank: 3rd (up two spots)

Analysis: After their first loss of the season to the Raiders, the Broncos bounced back in style with a convincing 43-26 win over the Titans despite a poor first half.

Reece Walsh has been in stunning form and turned the match with a 15-minute second half blitz, while Adam Reynolds is steering the ship to perfection and unlocking halves partner Ezra Mam.

As long as the Broncos have Payne Haas, who is in career best form and Patrick Carrigan setting the platform up front and holding their defence together, they will back their attack to beat anyone in the NRL, including the Eels next up.