A student looks at Iran's domestically built centrifuges in an exhibition of the country's nuclear achievements, in Tehran, Iran, Wednesday, February 8, 2023. The head of the United Nations nuclear watchdog on Tuesday underscored the urgency of resuscitating diplomatic efforts to limit Iran's nuclear program, saying the situation could quickly worsen if negotiations fail. (Photo by Vahid Salemi/AP Photo)

An Iranian woman wearing Gilaki traditional outfit attends the 16th International Exhibition of Tourism and Related Industries at the Tehran's international exhibition complex in Tehran, Iran, 08 February 2023. The exhibition runs until 10 February 2023. (Photo by Abedin Taherkenareh/EPA/EFE)

A woman with forehead painted with the Iranian flag's colors takes part in the annual rally commemorating Iran's 1979 Islamic Revolution, in Tehran, Iran, Saturday, February 11, 2023. Iran on Saturday celebrated the 44th anniversary of the 1979 Islamic Revolution amid nationwide anti-government protests and heightened tensions with the West. (Photo by Vahid Salemi/AP Photo)

Snow covered a tree at Pardisan Park in Tehran, Iran, Sunday, February 12, 2023. The snowfall decorated the city and helped clean the air which is usually severely polluted in the cold weather in the recent years. (Photo by Vahid Salemi/AP Photo)

Women eat as they sit in a commercial area in Tehran on February 21, 2023. Iran's currency plunged to new lows on January 20 amid fresh European Union sanctions, crossing the psychologically important rate of 500,000 rials to a dollar in foreign exchange markets. (Photo by Atta Kenare/AFP Photo)

Iranians use ATM machine in a street in downtown in Tehran, Iran, 27 February 2023. According to Isna news agency, Iranian foreign minister Amir-Abdoulahian on 26 February 2023 said that Iran is close to reach a nuclear deal with US, after receiving a message from US through Iraq. Iran faces an economic crisis after its currency dropped to its lowest value against the US dollar and other foreign currencies last week, following sanctions imposed by the US and EU, amid tensions over nuclear talks, which have stopped in the wake of recent anti-government protests in the country. (Photo by Abedin Taherkenareh/EPA/EFE)

An Iranian young couple set off firecrackers during a traditional fire feast called “Charshanbeh Suri” in Tehran, Iran, 14 March 2023. The festival is held annually on the last Wednesday eve before the Persian New Year (Nowruz), which starts on 21 March, also marking the beginning of spring. Nowruz, which has been celebrated for at least three thousand years, is the most revered celebration in the greater Persian world, which includes the countries of Iran, Afghanistan, Azerbaijan, Turkey, and portions of western China and northern Iraq. (Photo by Abedin Taherkenareh/EPA)

In this picture taken on March 14, 2023, figures of the fictional folklore character Hajji Firuz are displayed at a stall in Tehran ahead of the Nowruz New Year festival. Tehran is emptying ahead of the Persian New Year, as is the case annually, but this time around Iranians are being forced to adapt as the festival coincides with Ramadan. (Photo by Atta Kenare/AFP Photo)

Street vendors wait for customers at a commercial district in downtown Tehran, Iran, ahead of the Persian new year, known as Nowruz, Wednesday, March 15, 2023. Iran's bazaars are packed ahead of the Persian New Year next week, but there's little holiday cheer as customers survey the soaring prices of meat and holiday treats, wondering if they can afford either. (Photo by Vahid Salemi/AP Photo)

Iranians shop at a street market for Nowruz, the Persian New Year, in Tehran, Iran, 17 March 2023. Traditionally, Iranians buy goldfish and flowers to mark Nowruz, which this year falls on 20 March. Nowruz, which has been celebrated for at least three thousand years, is the most revered celebration in the greater Persian world, which includes the countries of Iran, Afghanistan, Azerbaijan, Turkey, and portions of western China and northern Iraq. (Photo by Abedin Taherkenareh/EPA)

A family walks between colorful decoration in the shape of eggs, a symbol of “Nowruz”, the Persian New Year, displayed around the Azadi (Freedom) square on the eve of Nowruz celebrations in Tehran, Iran, 20 March 2023. Nowruz, which has been celebrated for at least three thousand years, is the most revered celebration in the greater Persian world, which includes the countries of Iran, Afghanistan, Azerbaijan, Turkey, and portions of western China and northern Iraq. (Photo by Abedin Taherkenareh/EPA/EFE)

Mourners attend the funeral procession for two of Iran's revolutionary guard forces killed by Israel in Syria, held in Tehran on April 4, 2023. The two Iranian fighters, identified as Milad Heidari and Meghdad Mahghani, were killed on March 31, 2023 when Israel launched several missiles from the occupied Golan Heights against pro-regime positions near Damascus. (Photo by Atta Kenare/AFP Photo)

31 year-old female extreme sport athlete Farzaneh Shahsavand finding balance while slack-lining training in a mountain range near Tehran, Iran on April 09, 2023. (Photo by Fatemeh Bahrami/Anadolu Agency via Getty Images)

Muslims pray at Imamzadeh Saleh Mosque as they observe Laylat al-Qadr in Tehran, Iran on April 10, 2023. Iranian Muslims observe Laylat al-Qadr (also knows as Shab-i Ihya) on the 19th, 21st or 23rd nights of Ramadan, and pray until fajr. (Photo by Fatemeh Bahrami/Anadolu Agency via Getty Images)

CCTV cameras seen in front of a picture of Iranian late supreme leader Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini in a street in Tehran, Iran, 10 April 2023. According to the Islamic Republic News Agency (IRNA), the Iranian police department released a statement on 09 April that the police is stepping up its crackdown on women not wearing a headscarf in public, and that the Iranian police will use CCTV and install some new smart cameras in public places and roads for control and identification purposes. Protests erupted in Iran following Mahsa Amini's death in police custody in September 2022, after she'd been detained for allegedly violating the hijab law. (Photo by Abedin Taherkenareh/EPA/EFE)

A woman prays during a gathering with other devotees for the ritual prayers for Laylat al-Qadr (Night of Destiny), one of the holiest nights during the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan, outside the Imamzadeh Saleh mosque in Tehran, on April 10, 2023. (Photo by Atta Kenare/AFP Photo)

A woman prays during a gathering with other devotees for the ritual prayers for Laylat al-Qadr (Night of Destiny), one of the holiest nights during the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan, outside the Imamzadeh Saleh mosque in Tehran, on April 10, 2023. (Photo by Atta Kenare/AFP Photo)

A member of the Iranian paramilitary Basij force rides a horse while attending a rally to mark Jerusalem Day, an annual show of support for the Palestinians, in Tehran, Iran, Friday, April 14, 2023. (Photo by Vahid Salemi/AP Photo)

Members of the Iranian paramilitary Basij force symbolically use slingshot to show Palestinian boys confronting Israeli forces, in their rally to mark Jerusalem Day, an annual show of support for the Palestinians, in Tehran, Iran, Friday, April 14, 2023. (Photo by Vahid Salemi/AP Photo)