Pineapple Energy (NASDAQ:PEGY – Get Rating) is one of 37 publicly-traded companies in the “Telephone & telegraph apparatus” industry, but how does it compare to its rivals? We will compare Pineapple Energy to similar companies based on the strength of its dividends, institutional ownership, risk, earnings, analyst recommendations, profitability and valuation.

This table compares Pineapple Energy and its rivals top-line revenue, earnings per share (EPS) and valuation.

Pineapple Energy’s rivals have higher revenue and earnings than Pineapple Energy. Pineapple Energy is trading at a higher price-to-earnings ratio than its rivals, indicating that it is currently more expensive than other companies in its industry.

This table compares Pineapple Energy and its rivals’ net margins, return on equity and return on assets.

This is a breakdown of recent ratings and price targets for Pineapple Energy and its rivals, as reported by MarketBeat.com.

Pineapple Energy presently has a consensus price target of $5.60, indicating a potential upside of 291.61%. As a group, “Telephone & telegraph apparatus” companies have a potential upside of 67.08%. Given Pineapple Energy’s stronger consensus rating and  higher probable upside, equities research analysts clearly believe Pineapple Energy is more favorable than its rivals.

51.6% of shares of all “Telephone & telegraph apparatus” companies are owned by institutional investors. 7.0% of Pineapple Energy shares are owned by insiders. Comparatively, 17.4% of shares of all “Telephone & telegraph apparatus” companies are owned by insiders. Strong institutional ownership is an indication that hedge funds, endowments and large money managers believe a company is poised for long-term growth.

Pineapple Energy has a beta of 2.6, meaning that its stock price is 160% more volatile than the S&P 500. Comparatively, Pineapple Energy’s rivals have a beta of 3.40, meaning that their average stock price is 240% more volatile than the S&P 500.

Pineapple Energy rivals beat Pineapple Energy on 8 of the 13 factors compared.

Pineapple Energy, Inc. focuses on creating a national solar, storage, and energy services company. The company’s vision is to power the energy transition through the grassroots growth of solar electricity paired with battery storage. Its portfolio of brands, Hawaii Energy Connection, E-Gear, Sungevity, and Horizon Solar Power, offers homeowners and small businesses an end-to-end product offering spanning solar, battery storage, and grid services. The company is headquartered in Minnetonka, MN.

Receive News & Ratings for Pineapple Energy Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Pineapple Energy and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter.