Marvel Studios makes some of the biggest films and TV shows that are released. And each project, no matter who is set to star in it, is under incredible scrutiny from the moment it is announced. It’s actually pretty incredible to think Marvel Studios is able to keep any secrets, let alone be known for being the most secretive studio around. Well, even with all the practice of keeping secrets, the studio does occasionally have actors who are willing to spill the beans, such as Patti LuPone.

READ MORE: Elizabeth Olsen Says Scarlet Witch Could Appear In ‘Agatha’ Series: “I Think I’ll Be Back”

In an interview on “The View,” Patti LuPone, who is one of the new additions to the MCU set to appear in “Agatha: Coven of Chaos,” was asked if she could say anything about the upcoming series. Not only did she answer, but she went on to talk quite a bit, fully explaining who she plays in the show, as well as which cast members are joining her.

“It’s a coven of witches, and I play Lilia Calderu, who apparently is in the Marvel world,” said LuPone. “I researched her, she’s hot, she’s really hot, she’s got a great body and hair. I didn’t know there were witches, I didn’t know anything about the Marvel world. There are witches in the Marvel world. So, we are a coven of witches and the witches are: Kathryn Hahn, Aubrey Plaza, and the Familiar — if anybody knows ‘Heartstopper’ — is Joe Locke.”

She added, “I play Lilia Calderu, a 450-year-old Sicilian witch whose power is divination and whose trial is tarot. It’s very interesting. I think it’s going to be fantastic.”

Obviously, none of the information is really anything that would fall under the “spoiler” category. But it is fun to see an actress, who has been in Hollywood for so long, break that scary Marvel Studios secrets mandate that so many other actors tremble before. Maybe she’ll get a text from Kevin Feige asking her to nicely avoid all Marvel questions from here on out. We’ll have to wait and see.

“Agatha: Coven of Chaos,” a spinoff of the hit series, “WandaVision,” is expected to debut on Disney+ sometime in 2024. You can see Lupone talk about ‘Agatha’ below: