SACRAMENTO – The Golden State Warriors begin their 2022-23 playoff run on the road at Golden 1 Center Saturday night. The defending champs went 11-30 away from Chase Center during the regular season.

“There’s a reason they’re here,” head coach Steve Kerr said of the Sacramento Kings. “There’s a reason we’re on the road right now in their building. Because they’ve had a great regular season and they’ve put together a really good team.”

Game 1 of this series is Sacramento's first playoff game since 2006, and the first meeting between the Kings and the Warriors in NBA postseason history. With that comes a certain level of excitement from the home crowd. Kerr encouraged his team to embrace it.

“It’s going to be awesome,” Kerr said. “I’m looking forward to this. This has always been an amazing fanbase. It’s always a great vibe, even the last 16 years coming in here when they haven’t had great teams. There’s still a love for basketball, love for the Kings. There’s a vibe in the building that’s very fun. Given the circumstances now with the quality of their team and the season they just had, this place is going to be rowdy, it’s going to be fun.”

The Golden State Warriors’ head coach, Steve Kerr, addresses the media during a press conference before the start of the NBA Western Conference playoffs Game 1 between the Golden State Warriors and Sacramento Kings, in Sacramento, Calif. on Saturday, April 15, 2023.

The Warriors entered Saturday night 21-3 in playoff Game 1s under Kerr. Their first-round series against Sacramento was just the fourth series under Kerr where the team hasn’t had home court advantage. Golden State was 2-1 in those series.

“It’s a different vibe, for sure,” Kerr said of starting a playoff series on the road. “You sense an opportunity right away. First game of the series, let's go take one. If you can do that, you set a really good tone for the rest of the series and you put yourself in a good spot. It doesn’t guarantee you anything, whereas at home we have to hold serve, we have to win these first two. I think there’s a little bit of a sense of freedom when you start on the road, like, let's go let it rip and let’s go get it done.”

Stephen Curry has not only led a Warriors resurgence since entering the league, he has changed the game with his long-distance shooting.

Kerr said the Kings got the team’s full attention and respect during preparation entering the series. Kerr also made it clear that the Warriors aren’t worried about the NorCal rivalry.

“Yeah, we don’t care about Northern California,” Kerr said. “We care about the Warriors. We want to win for our fans and us. If that doesn’t happen, it isn’t like we’re going to be there with pom-poms saying let’s go Kings. I’d be very happy for Mike (Brown) on a personal level. He’s a great friend and everything that he’s meant to us and to me, I’d be thrilled for him. But yeah, there’s none of that geographic pride.”