Looks like Taylor Swift may be getting to know Dylan O’Brien All Too Well.

Fans of the superstar will know Tay and her boyfriend of six years, Joe Alwyn, recently called it quits — and while news may have just broke over the weekend, Entertainment Tonight reported that the former couple amicably ended their relationship weeks ago.

In the days since, fans have been speculating as to who her next beau may be, and celebrity gossip account DeuxMoi shared on Instagram Saturday that an anonymous source “has it on good authority she’s seeing someone new.” The mystery man was described as someone “older and a bit more lowkey.”

While there’s TONS of eligible bachelors that match that description, the latest rumor seems to conflict with the “older” report, as many fan accounts on Twitter Wednesday claimed new photos show Teen Wolf star Dylan O’Brien — who is two years her junior — leaving her apartment early in the morning! For instance (below):

One eagle-eyed fan in particular even pointed out a sparkly “22” written across The Maze Runner star’s back, potentially calling back to Taylor’s famous 2012 hit song. Ch-ch-check it out (below):

Looks like a 22 under his hood pic.twitter.com/annUHkeRG5

We have to make it clear we have NO IDEA if this is even true. We don’t even mean a relationship, we mean we can’t verify these photos were taken outside Taylor’s apartment! There’s no proof he was even there! These Swifties may be onto something, it wouldn’t be the first time. But we absolutely cannot corroborate Dylan was doing any kind of walk of shame.

While this is all merely rumor at this point, and may remain so, we do have to say just how WILD it would be if the two actually are in fact hooking up! It was just in late 2021 that Taylor cast Dylan as a Jake Gyllenhaal stand-in for her All Too Well short film, where Stranger Things actress Sadie Sink, who was just 19 at the time, portrayed the songstress herself. The song is all about her relationship with the too-old-for-her movie star, which first made headlines in 2010. At the time, Taylor had JUST turned 21, while Jake was 29. Watch the full thing for yourself (below):

If Taylor were to hook up with a Jake Gyllenhaal avatar all these years later — one she was older and more famous than this time — just think of the cathartic victory there! Just sayin’…

Related: Taylor & Joe Broke Up Because Her ‘Superstar’ Persona Re-Emerged??

In addition to that, the Not Okay actor can also be heard featuring his drumming skills on Taylor’s 2022 hit Snow on the Beach. The Love Story singer revealed on an October episode of The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon:

“Dylan was actually in the studio with me and Jack [Antonoff] because we were… a lot of the time we record at [Jack’s] place. And Dylan was just hanging out, like, drinking wine with us and listening to stuff. And he was just trying out the drum kit there. He wasn’t – he wasn’t serious. And so, we were just sort of like ‘Oh, we haven’t recorded the drums for this one yet, see if you wanna’, and he just played the drums on the song.”

She added at the time:

“Dylan and I become really close friends. Jack becomes really close friends with Dylan. We all start hanging out all the time.”

Huh. So even if he was at her place, it could just be because they’re “really close friends” now. Inneresting…

Reactions, Perezcious readers?! Do you ship the two? Let us know in the comments down below!