Clad in balaclavas and bullet-proof vests, the heavily armed men of the IRA's East Tyrone Brigade thought they were about to strike a resounding blow against the British state. But as they attacked the police station in the village of Loughall, using a digger with a bomb in its front bucket, they came under deadly fire from SAS soldiers in wait for them.

All eight of the IRA operatives were killed on 8 May 1987. It was the biggest loss of life the Republicans experienced in a single incident throughout the Troubles in Northern Ireland. The IRA commanders ordered their head of security Freddie Scappiticci to find how the Loughall plan had leaked. What they did not know was that Scappiticci himself was a long-serving British spy.This graphically illustrated why the IRA's guerrilla campaign failed. Scappiticci, known as "Stakeknife" and said to have been paid £80,000-a-year by the UK government, was the most senior member of a large, clandestine network of agents who fed intelligence to the British and destroyed the IRA's capacity to wage war.Aa s result, the Republican movement became hopelessly weakened. Their men were picked off, their operations thwarted. The peace process in the 1990s was effectively an extended negotiation over the terms of surrender, which excluded the IRA's cherished goal of Irish unity.This week marks the 25th anniversary of the Good Friday Agreement which formally brought the Troubles to an end after three decades of strife. Its success lay in its recognition that Northern Ireland's two different traditions, Unionism and

Nationalism must be allowed to co-exist in democratic harmony. Skilfully negotiated by the politicians and endorsed by the public, the Agreement created a series of institutions, led by the devolved assembly and powersharing executive, that made a virtue of compromise.It is a reflection of this anniversary's importance that tomorrow President Biden is visiting Belfast, where he will be met by Rishi Sunak and a host of other political leaders.Despite murmured threats from dissident Republicans and the present suspension of the Stormont Assembly due to Democratic Unionist intransigence, the mood of this gathering will be upbeat - and rightly so. Cynics who said that peace would not last have been proved wrong. The dark days of the early 1970s, which I witnessed as a child growing up in Belfast, never returned.In 1972, when 479 people were killed in the violence, Northern Ireland looked as if it might plunge into civil war.Today, the province is a global beacon of reconciliation.The politicians deserve high credit for this historic landmark, particularly the late John Hume, the moderate Nationalist, and David Trimble, his Unionist counterpart, who both emerged as global statesmen.But the crucial role of the British military and police is often ignored. The Belfast talks of 1998 would never have taken place if the IRA had not been neutralized by the determination of the British authorities.

The Republican leaders, headed by Gerry Adams, decided to sue for peace, not because they had seen the pacificist light, but because they were losing the armed struggle badly. These were cold, hard men, but they were also realists. Thanks to widespread penetration of their force by spies, they knew the IRA was crumbling. It has been estimated that a quarter of the IRA's members were British agents, rising to around half of the senior ranks. British intelligence intercepted arms from Libya, put "safe houses" under surveillance, and seized drugs used to fund terror.Even more ruthless was the apparent willingness of the British army and the Royal Ulster Constabulary to collude with Loyalist paramilitaries in the assassination of certain Republicans, though the extent of such methods is still the subject of fierce debate.By the early 1990s, eight in every 10 IRA operations in Belfast were being prevented. IRA members lost trust in their comrades and became reluctant to undertake missions.Kieran Conway, a former Director of IRA intelligence, recalled: "The attrition rate was appalling. The SAS and British intelligence were obviously in a position to intercept most operations. It was absolutely clear that we were losing the war, if we had not lost it already."Britain's approach could be ugly but, against a foe as callous as the IRA, it was brave and necessary. The 25th anniversary of the Good Friday deal is a welcome monument to its success.