TribLIVE's Daily and Weekly email newsletters deliver the news you want and information you need, right to your inbox.

TribLIVE's Daily and Weekly email newsletters deliver the news you want and information you need, right to your inbox.

Editor’s note: The Fox Chapel Herald is publishing election previews with candidate interviews for contested municipal and school board races only. Previews for contested Blawnox and Aspinwall council races will run in upcoming issues.

Indiana Township Republicans have a choice to make when it comes to who will represent their party in the November election for District 3 supervisor.

Incumbent Mayor Darrin J. Krally faces political newcomer Brandice Miller for the party nomination in the May 16 primary for one four-year seat, according to unofficial Allegheny County Election Division records.

Democrat Emily S. Cook is running unopposed for her party’s nomination for the District 3 seat. The winner of the Krally-Miller race would face Cook in November, barring any write-in campaigns.

Here are responses from Krally and Miller to questions posed by the Tribune-Review:

Education: B. A. from the University of Pittsburgh

Why did you decide to run for reelection?

To ensure our mission and vision of being a leading Banner Community year after year is achieved. To date, we are quite successful and I have played an integral part in making this happen.

What is the biggest issue that needs to be addressed?

Our biggest issue at present is ensuring that strong, independent, positive leadership exists, while defeating agenda oriented pretenders.

Why should people vote for you?

Leadership is not about words. It’s about results. Simply put, see my track record of success. I want my voters to ask themselves if they know that our Township is now better positioned than when I started over 20 years ago.

I am a trusted leader, completely comfortable in my own skin.

Education: B. S. from Youngstown State University, working towards M.S. in Accounting at Clarion University

Why did you decide to run for office?

I have a history of public service and volunteerism, having spent three years in the U. S. Navy, and 15 years working at local nonprofit organizations. I have spent most of my career working in process improvement/fiscal management, and I believe those skills can be an asset for the township.

What is the biggest issue that needs to be addressed?

Current rules governing development in the township do not create developments that meet the needs of many residents. Owners should be free to develop their land, but residents should also be able to expect a development that functions well (with) adequate road width, parking, etc. and is completed as promised.

Why should people vote for you?

I have a history of optimizing resources to provide better services, which is what any taxpayer-funded entity should strive for. I grew up in a very tight-knit, rural community, (Shanksville, Pa.) and I’m hoping I can help Indiana Township maintain the same sense of community.