* Teen heartthrob Rob Lowe was "saved" by his wife from drugs, alcohol, and womanizer life.

* The actor revealed the secret of his 32-years marriage.

* In a new photo with his wife, the spouses look ageless and stunning in matching black outfits.

Rob Lowe has had an extensive career in Hollywood with acting credits in "St. Elmo's Fire," "The Outsiders," and even "Parks and Recreation" to his name. Yet he had to overcome personal struggles that almost ruined him.

Like many others in the industry, Lowe fell victim to substance abuse in his early days in Hollywood. Only when he met his now-wife could he kick the addictions and become the best version of himself.

When Lowe got his breakout role in "The Outsiders," the industry was much different from how it is now. A source once revealed that for 17-year-old Lowe, beer was readily available in his trailer.

After that, Lowe developed a taste for illicit substances. Lowe said he identified so much with his "St. Elmo's Fire" character, a "loveable rogue." He admitted his early twenties were debaucherous.

He then enjoyed a succession of short romances and faster living, but he hit rock bottom when he turned 26. One night in 1990, Lowe arrived home from a night of partying and found a voice message from his mother.

The message from his mother informed Lowe that his grandfather had had a heart attack and pleaded with Lowe to pick up the phone. He dealt with it the only way he knew how. Lowe confessed:

"I remember going into the bathroom, looking at myself in the mirror, and my thought process was, 'You need to drink directly from this bottle of Cuervo Gold so you can go to sleep, so you can wake up, so you can deal with this.'"

Lowe knew after that that he could no longer live the way he had been and was in rehab 48 hours later. He also tried to build himself a life outside his career, saying: "I always wanted that life; I really wanted kids. I wanted a normal life outside of Hollywood."

Lowe and his now-wife, Sheryl Berkoff, met in 1983 after going on a blind date together. Yet their romantic relationship didn't begin until 1989. The pair worked together on "Bad Influence," where Lowe was an actor, and Berkoff was a renowned makeup artist.

The actor knew he could be with Berkoff for the rest of his life, yet he recognized that his substance abuse issues would stand in the way of his relationship with her. He knew he had to steer himself on the right path to make their romantic relationship work.

Lowe and Berkoff married in 1991 and welcomed their first child in 1993. The actor said he did not regret his life before he met Berkoff because it taught him so much, but he was ready to be a soccer dad.

The actor said that for the first 26 years of his life, he spent all his time focusing on his career. However, after he got sober, he focused on himself and what he wanted from his life, like a wife and children.

Talking about the impact that his wife has had on his life and what she did for him when they met, Lowe gushed:

"She may have saved my life, really."

Lowe acknowledged that he met Berkoff at a tumultuous time in his life and knew that if he could not make his relationship with her work, he would never be able to make it work with anybody else. Their relationship has allowed Lowe to be sober and the doting father of two for over three decades.

Berkoff and Lowe's relationship has inspired many of their fans, and many have wondered how they have kept their love alive for so many decades. The couple is forthcoming about their marriage tips.

Lowe believes that marriage is difficult anywhere, not only in Hollywood, and that you should marry your best friend. The actor says that marrying your best friend helps sustain the ebbs and flows that any relationship goes through.

While friendship is one thing that Lowe and Berkoff prioritize in their relationship, Lowe also shared:

"People say marriage takes work. I'm not sure if it takes work, but what it does take is forgiveness and being really cognizant of what hill you're willing to die on."

The couple not only feels happy in their relationship, but they look even happier. Whenever they post a photo, fans are in awe of how young they still look. This week, Lowe shared a photo of himself and Berkoff dressed up.

Lowe wore a smart black suit with a matching thin black tie. He styled his hair in his signature spikey way and smirked at the camera. Berkoff styled her beautiful blonde hair in a wavy style with smokey eyes and soft lips.

Berkoff wore a plunging black top finished with rhinestones and black hoop earrings. Berkoff also smirked at the camera. Fans were delighted by the photo and shared their thoughts about the couple.

One fan said that Berkoff was the luckiest woman in the world because Lowe was the most handsome man on the planet. Another said:

"Rob Lowe, that man never ages, yet I do, lol! You were my 80s heartthrob. God bless ya and your genes!"

Another fan said the couple looked like they never aged and were both "pretty people" who looked like they had just come off of "St. Elmo's Fire" and ate at an Atkin's bar. One fan thought Lowe was aging backward.

One fan said the couple looked gorgeous and appeared to be in disbelief at how wonderful they looked. Another said they were "so hot" together, and one said they looked "incredible" for their age.