Public college and university campuses in New York could soon be required to provide access to abortion medication under a measure that advanced Tuesday through the state Assembly.

If given final passage, campuses in the State University of New York and City University of New York would be required to either employ or contract with an authorized prescriber and provide students with information and referrals for locally based prescribers.

The legislation is moving forward amid uncertainty over access to medication abortion in the future. Conflicting federal rulings over the legality of the pill mifepristone used in medication abortions could be decided by the U. S. Supreme Court.

“While the Supreme Court and states across the country roll back women’s access to abortion and reproductive health care, here in New York we will not,” Assembly Speaker Carl Heastie said. “This bill will ensure that our public university and college students have access to care that will allow them to continue their education.”

The New York Catholic Conference, meanwhile, has been critical of having access for medication aboriton on college campuses expand.

"As with so many bills that expand abortion, the sponsors claim to support women," the group wrote in a memorandum opposing the measure. "The lack of safeguards or true consideration for women’s health within this provision would do the opposite. The potential for harm to young women if this bill were to pass is unconscionable."

The lawmakers who support the legislation, however, argue it would provide a safe-to-access setting for the procedure.

"Importantly, the college age population are more likely to seek abortion care but have less resources to access it," said Assemblyman Harvey Epstein. "We can change that. This legislation will ensure that the institutions where students live, work and spend their free time are making these services accessible."

New York officials in recent days have sought to step up access to pills used in medication abortion procedures. Gov. Kathy Hochul this month announced the state is stockpiling 150,000 doses of misoprostol, a drug that can also be used for medication abortions.

While the state budget continues to be negotiated, Democratic lawmakers who control the Legislature and the Hochul may also include provisions meant to ease access concerns. That includes an increase in the Medicaid reimbursement rate, $25 million for providers, allowing pharmacists to prescribe birth control and creating new protections for data privacy.