Krakow-based experimental music festival Unsound has announced its first London event in five years, following Unsound Dislocation in late-2017.

Taking place on May 6, Unsound London will first host a music and art showcase at the Barbican, featuring a performance from experimental supergroup Osmium, comprised of Oscar-winning composer Hildur Guðnadóttir, Grammy-winning producer Sam Slater, James Ginzberg and Indonesian vocalist Rully Shabara. The group will perform and create live music using custom-built instruments.

There will also be a showcase of artist Robin Fox’s latest work, which uses a number of laser projections to create what has been described as an “audio visual space-time carving”, while Sofie Birch and Polish vocalist Antonia Nowacka will perform parts of their recent collaborative album ‘Languoria’.

Read this next: Krakow's Unsound is an incredibly vivid exercise in staying present

Following the showcase, an afterparty will take place at intimate Hackney venue The Glove that Fits, which will come in conjunction with local experimental outfit Tropical Waste.

It will see the UK debuts of Cardopusher's new alias Safety Trance, with the Venezuelan artist performing his blend of Latin club sounds, as well as Egyptian producer Abadir, who will bring his fusion of Maqsoum folk music along with jungle, footwork and more. Support will come from Warsaw DJ Hermeneia, as well as Tropical Waste co-founder Seb.

It continues Tropical Waste’s run of premiering debut UK performances, having previously hosted the likes of Lotic, Toxe, Zora Jones, Dinamarca and Fis over the past decade.

Tickets for the Barbican showcase start from £22.50, and can be purchased here, while tickets for the afterparty currently stand at £15 plus a booking fee, which can be bought here.

Read this next: SOPHIE and Jlin, 33EMYBW, Laraaji and more contribute to Unsound Festival's 'Intermission' book and album

Unsound’s 2023 Kraków edition will take place between October 1 and October 8, with the festival revealing that its new artistic director will be “artificially intelligent”.

In an Instagram post announcing the news, the artificially intelligent artistic director wrote: “I’ll be the chief provocateur, shaking up the Unsound algorithms, because, let’s face it, things are getting stale.”