SIDNEY - Marcia Hinckley Moody, 93, of Sidney, peacefully passed away on April 12, 2023, at her home surrounded by her ...

SIDNEY - Marcia Hinckley Moody, 93, of Sidney, peacefully passed away on April 12, 2023, at her home surrounded by her ...

SIDNEY – Marcia Hinckley Moody, 93, of Sidney, peacefully passed away on April 12, 2023, at her home surrounded by her family and loved ones. Marcia was born Oct. 23, 1929, in Gardiner. Her parents were Albert and Cecile Hinckley. Marcia came from a large family that included 14 brothers and sisters, all of whom predeceased her.

Marcia chose being a mother and homemaker as her profession and excelled at this job up until the time of her passing; always caring for her family in any way she could. Marcia enjoyed many activities including family BBQ’s and get together, Bingo, going to the beach, boating and later in her life scratch tickets which were always a must-have gift given to her from family on all holidays.

Marcia was predeceased by her son Brian Moody.

Surviving children include Lorraine Skidgel and husband Sheldon of Randolph, Wayne Moody and his wife Tina of Pennsylvania, Elaine Smith of West Gardiner; Sharon Smith and husband Brent of Sidney, Sherry Libby and husband Dwayne of Whitefield, Tammy Gagnon and husband Jeffrey of Sidney, Pamela Decker and husband James of Sidney, and Richard Moody of Gorham.

Marcia had many loving grandchildren; nieces and nephews who will miss her greatly.

A graveside service will be held at Oak Grove Cemetery in Gardiner on Saturday, May 6 at 11 a.m. A celebration of life will immediately follow at her granddaughter, Sabrina’s home at 2351 West River Rd. in Sidney. All are welcome.

Our family would like to thank hospice for all the support and care given to Marcia during her time at home to make her remaining time comfortable and peaceful.

Arrangements are entrusted with Staples Funeral Home and Cremation Care, 53 Brunswick Ave., Gardiner. Condolences, memories, and photos may be shared with the family on the obituary page of the Staples Funeral Home website, http://www.staplesfuneralhome.com

Donations can be made in her honor to Mainegeneral Hospice at https://give.mainegeneral.org/hospice or by mail to,