Priyanka Chopra is known for her stylish outings. While many celebrities have a signature look, Priyanka manages to appear stunning in each and every dress that she wears. She is fearless and not afraid to try new things when it comes to fashion. The actress recently attended the Citadel premiere in London with her husband, singer-actor Nick Jonas. Priyanka turned eyeballs with a stunning red outfit.

Priyanka Chopra serves a statement making moment in a red corset gown at Citadel premiere in London

Celebrities have a history of introducing us to must-have fashion favourites, and the modern red silhouette is one of them. Red dresses, when worn with the finest grace, have been a chic and gorgeous way to upgrade any appearance. Recently, Priyanka Chopra has been advocating for the same thing. She has recently been busy promoting her show Citadel in London after promoting it in Mumbai. Of course, the actress has a full social schedule, and when she was out and about, she continued the fashion tradition by donning a chic red dress. She stood out in a stunning crimson gown with a corset bodice and off-the-shoulder sleeves for a sensual, seductive vibe. Our hearts were captured by the silhouette's lovely flow. Her choice of an open hairstyle and dazzling makeup with a red lip were both textbook-perfect as always. Don't we want to save this look for fuss-free fashion days already? It has been added to our list of fashions.

Nick Jonas, on the other hand, opted for a monochrome look with his all-black outfit. He covered up with a coat and put a turtleneck T-shirt into his pants. He accessorised his coat with a wristwatch and black boots.

Meanwhile, Citadel starring Richard Madden and Priyanka Chopra, the Citadel franchise is an action-packed spy series with compelling emotional angles. The project is backed by Amazon and helmed by the Russo Brothers - Anthony Russo and Joe Russo - of Avengers fame. Mason Kane, alongside Priyanka Chopra Jonas as Nadia Sinh, Osy Ikhile as Carter Spence, Ashleigh Cummings as Abby Conroy, Stanley Tucci as Bernard Orlick, Lesley Manville as Dahlia Archer and Davik Silje among others. Its Indian series is being developed by Raj Nidimoru and Krishna DK of The Family Man fame and will be headlined by Varun Dhawan and Samantha Ruth Prabhu.

Also Read: Priyanka Chopra addresses backlash over calling RRR a Tamil film; says, “People try to find a mistake in anything I do”

Catch us for latest Bollywood News, New Bollywood Movies update, Box office collection, New Movies Release , Bollywood News Hindi, Entertainment News, Bollywood Live News Today & Upcoming Movies 2023 and stay updated with latest hindi movies only on Bollywood Hungama.