Amid the controversy caused by French President Emmanual Macron’s China trip, the EU’s chief diplomat Josep Borrell is expected to present a unified EU front on China policy during his visit later this week.

Borrell is expected to travel to Beijing from Thursday (13 April) to Saturday for the annual EU-China strategic dialogue with Chinese Foreign Minister Qin Gang.

He will also sit down with China’s top diplomat Wang Yi on Thursday as well as the country’s new Defense Minister Li Shangfu.

The EU’s top diplomat is expected to reiterate the bloc’s commitment to its own “One China” policy but reassert the bloc’s right to build ties with Taiwan within that framework.

“It is critical (…) in preserving peace, of course, in particular, in the Taiwan Strait, in and around Taiwan,” a senior EU official said ahead of Borrell’s trip.

“There is no such military aid given by EU members to Taiwan [like the US does]. Having said this, we are strongly engaged in and with Taiwan, with a very strong economy and a very thriving democracy,” the senior EU official added.

The issue has now become one of the more contentious issues in the itinerary, especially after Macron’s comments cast doubt on Western commitment to the democratically-ruled island.

On a flight from Beijing to Guangzhou last week, Macron told reporters that the EU should avoid becoming a “vassal” of the United States on China, especially urging distance concerning any potential military aid to Taiwan.

“Is it in our interest to accelerate on the subject of Taiwan? No. The worst thing would be to think that we Europeans must become followers on this topic and adapt to the American rhythm and a Chinese overreaction,” Macron had said in his press remarks.

The remarks, which caused backlash both from US lawmakers and inside Europe, came on the heels of a state visit in which France deepened economic and cultural ties with Beijing.

“Some Western leaders dream of cooperation with everyone, with Russia and with some powers in the Far East,” Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said before flying out for a state visit to the US on Tuesday (11 April).

Some EU officials and diplomats, however, are concerned the initially planned low-key visit could turn into a tough grilling if the Chinese decide to take advantage of the visible divisions.

“We see that the Chinese are great observers of every single nuance which comes out of Europe,” the senior EU official said, toning down concerns and adding this would make Borrell’s mission “much more interesting”.

Macron’s messaging also stood in stark contrast to messages delivered by European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, who joined him for a meeting with their Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping.

Though it seems unlikely the bloc will be able to sway Beijing in its Ukraine policy, Borrell said last month Beijing’s partnership with Moscow has limits, despite official rhetoric and public visits pointing to the contrary.

Meanwhile, the flurry of visits to Beijing comes as a date for the annual EU-China summit is not yet set and the EU side is yet to receive an official invitation from Beijing, which is to host the event later this year, EU sources say.