HITC addresses where to watch the Backstroke movie on streaming for free online.

It’s been a huge year for horror fans and the genre continues to thrive by delivering audiences a wide range of movies and series.

Such recent films, from Scream 6 to Winnie The Pooh: Blood And Honey have demanded significant attention. Meanwhile, less spotlighted but satisfying watched include Missing and Knock At The Cabin.

However, it’s important to acknowledge that it’s not always about seeking out new titles. Sometimes, it’s just as worthwhile to check out older films that are being discussed years after their release.

Namely, some have recently revisited a short film called Backstroke. So, here’s where to watch the Backstroke movie on streaming for free online.

Backstroke is streaming for free on YouTube courtesy of the Alter channel, which offers subscribers and audiences an array of compelling and innovative horror short films.

Taking that into consideration, it’s certainly worth checking out more shorts after Backstroke.

Speaking of Backstroke, the 10-minute movie was directed by Robbie Barclay and tells the story of two teenage runaways who steal a car with big ideas about driving to Florida and pursuing a better life.

However, things take a sudden turn when a mysterious stranger stops them on their journey to change their odds of escape.

You can check out the cast members of the Backstroke short alongside their respective roles below:

Robbie, the writer-director, has also helmed other shorts which include Dwelling, Dope City, and Get Down.

Robbie has an official website and his bio includes some brief but key information about him and his work:

“Robbie is a writer and director hailing from rural Pennsylvania. His short films and commercials have collected multiple Vimeo Staff Picks and been featured on Short of the Week, No Film School and Adage. Robbie’s work blends genres and captures complex and universal emotions in the lives of ordinary people.”

The bio also notes that “He shoots all over the world but currently calls Brooklyn home.”

Backstroke is available to stream on YouTube.