So you’ve just started playing Unknown Knights and aren’t sure which characters are good? Well, you’re in luck, as that’s exactly what our Unknown Knights tier list is here to help with. In this very guide, we rank all of the characters from S tier to D tier, with S being best and D being worst. That way, you can focus on filling out your party with S and A tiers to ensure that you perform well, skipping the B-D tiers. We’ll also include a description of the tiers so you know what they actually mean.

Unknown Knights is a combination of city building strategy and gacha RPG. You have to expand your territory by building up an army of knights, which is where the gacha elements come in. By collecting cards for various characters, you can build a deck and use it in battle Hearthstone-style.

You can learn more about it on the official site, and grab some launch day freebies with our Unknown Knights codes list. We also recommend checking out our RPG Elevator tier list, Avatars Saga tier list, and Madtale tier list.

Before we move onto the tier list proper, here’s a description of how our tiering system works so that you can make sense of it.

Here’s a brief explanation of each of our tiers:

* S Tier: Characters in this tier are the absolute best that the game has to offer. You should prioritise unlocking these and increasing their power. One of these can carry you through the entire game, and a full party will make most of the endgame content trivial – provided you focus on growing their power.

* A Tier: If your collection is lacking in S tiers, A tiers are great for filling gaps. These characters are still great in their own right, but they just lack a little something when you compare them to an S tier. Use them when you need to, but drop them when you can.

* B Tier: During the early phases of the game, you’ll likely rely on a party of a single S tier and a bunch of B tiers. These characters are quite easy to get, and are solid, if unremarkable. Definitely swap them out for A tiers and S tiers, but don’t be ashamed to use them if you need to.

* C Tier: This is when we get into ‘bad character’ territory. C tiers are, much like D tiers, some of the worst characters in the game, but they often have niche uses. They might be really strong in a particular game mode, or during a certain phase of the game. Take a close look at their skills and judge accordingly.

* D Tier: Characters in this tier are simply never worth using. They’re the worst characters in the game, suffering from severe balance issues, and will underperform at all points in any modes. Don’t use them if you can avoid it.

Please note: Unknown Knights has just launched, so we’re currently playing it as we determine who the best characters are. Bear with us while we fill out this tier list!

God tier characters. Try and reroll for one at the beginning as they will power you through the game, then create a party out of them at endgame.

Solid characters that are great for filling gaps in your party when you don’t have enough S tiers.

These characters start strong but fade later on. Don’t be ashamed to use them, but do swap them out as you unlock S and A tiers.

In certain game modes, or at the beginning, characters in this tier can excel. Mostly, they’re useless though.

Never use D tiers unless you can’t avoid it. They’re awful at all game modes, and at all phases of the game.

Still unsure about our tier list? Got questions about Unknown Knights in general? Hopefully our tier list can help!

We should probably have answered this question at the beginning, eh? A tier list is, quite simply, a list of all of the characters in a specific game ranked from best to worst. In our case, S is the best characters with D being the worst, and A, B, and C filling the gaps.

The purpose of a tier list is to help you determine which characters to use at all stages of the game. We try and make our tier list as useful as possible by explaining our tier system.

For example, there are instances where certain characters are excellent during the beginning of a game, but fade later on. Or, they could be good at a certain game mode. We’ll always try and make this clear.

We used a number of different sources when selecting our Unknown Knights tier list, but, primarily, we judge based on our personal experience with the game. As a result, it is bound to be quite a subjective list, but there’s no getting around that.

To determine the rankings, we both experiment with the characters in the game (if unlocked), as well as theory-craft based on skill descriptions and raw statistics. That’s why you’ll see our tier list change so much when a game first launches, as we’re in the testing phase.

It’s also worth noting that we do scour communities, like Reddit, for community feedback. If the general consensus is that a specific character is strong or weak, we will reflect that in our tier list. That way, it’s got a certain degree of objectivity.

We’ll wrap this section up by reminding you that tier lists are subjective by nature. Your experience may vary completely to ours, so take it with a pinch of salt.

You can expect to see an update to our Unknown Knights tier list whenever a new character is introduced. It might take us a while to test the character for ourselves though, so expect a brief delay.

We also update the list whenever a big balance patch hits, as this will throw the meta out the window. Again, there may be a brief delay as we experiment with the changes and update our rankings.