With one look at the new Oakland Señor Sisig location near Lake Merritt, it’s hard not to notice the Filipino American restaurant’s upward trajectory. An all-glass exterior lets passersby see the Warriors-colored interior design, a giant, roll-up garage door creates an open-air energy perfect for the upcoming summer weather, and a huge mural dedicated to the pop culture and sports heroes of Oakland brings the cantina vibes full circle.

The other Señor Sisig locations, one in the Mission and another at the Ferry Building (as well as their OG roaming food truck), don’t have a full liquor license and are often blanketed in the famous San Francisco fog. In the new Oakland digs at 330 17th St., the plan is to create a hangout spot where the community can gather over beer, special cocktails and pulutan — plates that encourage sharing with your group.

“This was two years in the making,” co-founder Gil Payumo said as he was behind the bar supervising the new bar crew. “We can’t do the cantina model everywhere as it’s weather-dependent, but Oakland is the perfect place to set it off.”

An order of 8 pieces of lumpia in Oakland, Calif. on Friday, April 14, 2023. Señor Sisig opened their newest location in Oakland on 17th street.

People sit and eat at the new Señor Sisig location in Oakland, Calif. on Friday, April 14, 2023. Señor Sisig opened their newest location in Oakland on 17th street.

A line forms at the newest Señor Sisig location on 17th Street in Oakland, Calif. on Monday, Jan. 27, 2020.

An order of tacos with chicken and pork in Oakland, Calif. on Friday, April 14, 2023. Señor Sisig opened their newest location in Oakland on 17th street.

Interior views of the new Señor Sisig location in Oakland, along with its new lumpia (which is only available at the Oakland location), upper left, and an order of tacos with chicken and pork, lower right. (Samantha Laurey/Special to SFGATE)

Interior views of the new Señor Sisig location in Oakland, along with its new lumpia (which is only available at the Oakland location), upper left, and an order of tacos with chicken and pork, lower right. (Samantha Laurey/Special to SFGATE)

If you are unfamiliar with Señor Sisig, here’s the backstory: In 2010, Payumo and high school friend Evan Kidera took the Bay Area food truck scene by storm. The duo made Filipino meats, such as chicken sisig, pork tocino and even a tofu sisig, using family recipes, and made it hella San Francisco by putting them in tacos and burritos. As Guy Fieri once said, “It’s not Asian, it’s not Mexican, it’s Señor Sisig.”

With the success of the food truck, the high school pals and now business partners were able to open their first brick-and-mortar, on Valencia Street, and are now one of the models of success for how to make it from food truck to an expanding empire ready to make an imprint on the entire state of California. But more on that later.

At the grand opening of the Oakland cantina Friday, I was enticed to try two of the new shareable plates — which are only available in Oakland — the lechon kawali plato and lumpia, the immensely popular Filipino spring roll that people had been clamoring for, according to the cashier who rang me up.

An order of lechon kawali at the new Señor Sisig location in Oakland, Calif., on Friday, April 14, 2023.

Lechon kawali — a half-pound of uber-crispy pork belly chunks, complete with visible and flavorful layers of fat — is a decadent, time-intensive dish usually reserved for festive meals, so I had to take advantage of it being on the menu. Plated on top of a banana leaf, the pile of pork belly cubes smelled fried and amazing. Encircled by chile-lime-flavored shrimp chips, corn tortillas, sisig barbecue sauce, habanero salsa and pickled red onions, the plate was giving a “make-your-own taco” vibe. So that’s exactly what me and my co-worker did — we dug in.

The skin of the pork belly was indeed bubbly, crackling like a chip with every bite. The saltiness was balanced and gave flavor to the fatty meat just below the skin. While the meat itself was a little leathery, the dish was still tasty and well worth the $22 price point, especially when splitting it with friends. The addition of the pickled red onions and habanero salsa really brought out the flavor of the Filipino pork in a taco format.

Coachella | This was the surprise opener everyone was talking about

Food | The Coachella diner where Kylie Jenner and Post Malone eat

Culture | ‘It’s all just a mess’: Why locals can’t go to Coachella

History | Remembering the year Coachella ran out of beer

The lumpia were a true standout. While the classic Filipino dish has never been on a Señor Sisig menu full-time, Payumo and Kidera went to the best of the best for their new cantina. The team partnered with Alex Retodo of Oakland’s the Lumpia Company, which is co-owned by Vallejo-born rapper E-40 and is just a few blocks away from this Senor Sisig outpost, for a special sisig pork lumpia. Their already-tasty sisig, with its sweet-and-savory flavor profile, took on new dimensions in the deep-fried wrapper. It was one of the better bites of lumpia I’ve had in recent memory. The dish, which came with about eight rolls piled into the shape of a pyramid and was priced at $15, also had a salsa verde for dipping that rivaled any green salsa from a taqueria.

Sustainable Hawaii travel tips for your next island getaway

Bartender making a ube hennchata at the newest Señor Sisig location on 17th Street in Oakland, Calif. on Monday, Jan. 27, 2020.

The newest Señor Sisig location on 17th Street in Oakland, Calif. on Monday, Jan. 27, 2020.

People sit and eat at the new Señor Sisig location in Oakland, Calif. on Friday, April 14, 2023. Señor Sisig opened their newest location in Oakland on 17th street.

A tamarind and chili margarita in Oakland, Calif. on Friday, April 14, 2023. Señor Sisig opened their newest location in Oakland on 17th street.

A staff bartender makes an ube Hennchata, upper left, and a tamarind and chile margarita, lower right, at the newest Señor Sisig location on 17th Street in Oakland, Calif., on Friday, April 14, 2023. (Samantha Laurey/Special to SFGATE)

A staff bartender makes an ube Hennchata, upper left, and a tamarind and chile margarita, lower right, at the newest Señor Sisig location on 17th Street in Oakland, Calif., on Friday, April 14, 2023. (Samantha Laurey/Special to SFGATE)

Along with the shareable new dishes, this new Oakland outpost is the first to serve beer and specialty cocktails. On the list: tequila and mezcal-focused drinks, such as a tamarind and chile margarita, and one incredibly Yay Area concoction — an ube Hennchata. The company was built on the blending of different cultures, and this fun glass of purple drink is the epitome of the brand — the increasingly popular Filipino purple ube, the creamy Mexican agua fresca and, of course, Hennessy, the party-starter cognac often shouted out by Bay Area rappers.

As I ate and drank beneath the mural by Aaron Kai, which featured Oakland legends Marshawn Lynch, Too Short, Steph Curry, Bruce Lee, Rickey Henderson and more, I couldn’t help but think of two things: This new Señor Sisig outpost is hella Oakland, and it’s refreshing to see how successful two Bay Area born-and-bred food entrepreneurs are succeeding beyond expectations without giving up their roots.

Owners Evan Kidera and Gil Payumo at the newest Señor Sisig location on 17th Street in Oakland, Calif., on Friday, April 14, 2023.

As for the future? Payumo said, “We think we can [do a cantina] in Palo Alto and even Southern California.”