The Minnesota Wild enter this game having won three of their last five games and are coming off a 3-2 double-overtime win on the road against the Dallas Stars in game one of the series on Monday which also ended their two-game losing streak.

Meanwhile, the Dallas Stars enter this game having won six of their last five games but are coming off a 2-3 loss in double overtime against the Minnesota Wild in game one of the series on Monday which also snapped their six-game winning streak.

BookMaker has the Dallas Stars listed as -148 money line favorites at home against the Minnesota Wild and has set the total for the over/under plays at 5.5 goals. Which team will come away with the win in game two of the series on Wednesday? Let’s take a closer look at how these teams are faring this season.

The Minnesota Wild enter this game leading the series 1-0 against the Dallas Stars following a 3-2 win in double-overtime in game one.

Offensively, Minnesota is averaging 3 goals per game in the playoffs. Ryan Hartman, Kirill Kaprizov, and Sam Steel are tied for the team lead in scoring with 1 goal per game in the playoffs this season. Gustav Nyquist, Jared Spurgeon, Sam Steel, and Mats Zuccarello are tied for the team lead in assists in the playoffs with 1 assist per game on the year. Sam Steel leads the team in points in the playoffs with a total of 2 points.

Defensively, the Wild are allowing an average of 2 goals per game in the playoffs. The projected goalie for the Wild, Filip Gustavsson, is 1-0 in the playoffs with a save percentage of .962 and is allowing an average of 1.3 goals per game.

The Dallas Stars enter this game trailing the Minnesota Wild 0-1 in the series following a 2-3 loss in double-overtime in game one.

Offensively, the Stars are averaging 2 goals per game in the playoffs. Roope Hintz and Jason Robertson are tied for the team lead in goals in the playoffs with 1 goal apiece. Jamie Been, Miro Heiskanen, and Joe Pavelski are tied for the team lead in assists in the playoffs with 1 assist per game on the year. Jamie Benn, miro Heiskanen, Roope Hintz, Joe Pavelski, and Jason Robertson are tied for the team lead in points in the playoffs with 1 point.

Defensively, Dallas is allowing an average of 3 goals per game in the playoffs. The projected goalie for Dallas, Jake Oettinger, is 0-1 in the playoffs with a .938 save percentage and is allowing an average of 1.96 goals per game.

Minnesota has won six of the last ten games in the series, however, Dallas has outscored Minnesota by an average of 3.5 to 3.3 goals per game in those matchups. The Wild have won two of the last three games in the series, however, the Stars have outscored the Wild by an average of 2.33 to 2 in those contests.

The under has hit in six of the last ten games in the series with the teams combining for an average of 6.8 goals per game in those contests. The under has hit in the last three games in the series with the teams combining for an average of 4.33 goals per game in those matchups.

Both goalies played phenomenally in game one with Joe Oettinger having a .938 save percentage and Filip Gustavsson having a save percentage of .962. The under has been the trend in the series, hitting in six of the last ten including the previous four matchups in a row. As a result, I am taking the under 5.5 goals for this matchup on BookMaker.