The actress is the star of The Mother, out on Netflix May 12th

The actress is the star of The Mother, out on Netflix May 12th

Jennifer Lopez is on a roll with back to back movies – most recently Marry Me and Shotgun Wedding – and now she is headed to the big screen once again.

The star is gearing up to promote and premiere The Mother, which is far from her most recent wedding-themes movies.

Instead of a bride, she will be playing the role of a formerly retired assassin coming out of hiding in order to protect her daughter.

MORE: Ben Affleck shares very special talent that surprises fans

Though the movies' official release is still a couple a weeks away – it'll be out, fittingly, on Mother's Day, which falls on May 12th – J. Lo has already given plenty of exciting teasers, and her latest is no less so.

The triple-threat award-winner took to Instagram to remind fans of the incoming release, sharing a behind-the-scenes glimpse of her time promoting it.

MORE: Ben Affleck confesses how he really feels about J. Lo's songs about him

In the video montage, Jennifer looks glamorous as ever, donning a voluptuous pleated dress in a beautiful Yves Klein blue, with billowing sleeves and sheer panels, plus a high slit.

She kept the rest of the look –which was put together by her longtime stylists, duo Rob Zangardi and Mariel Haenn – relatively simple, accessorizing with chunky silver hoops, and her hair was styled in a loose, tousled low ponytail, her front layers left untied to frame her face.

MORE: Jennifer Lopez's ex A-Rod gets 'emotional' about daughter's major upheaval

MORE: Jennifer Lopez supports husband Ben Affleck during special outing in Los Angeles

The video montage was fittingly set to Meghan Trainer's latest hit, "Mother", and J. Lo used the lyrics for her caption, writing: "I am #TheMother… so listen to me," next to a winking face emoji.

Fans had nothing but praise for her look and excitement for the new action film, and wrote in the comments section under the post: "How can you be this beautiful????" and: "You're looking so gorgeous with that dress in blue Mrs. Affleck," as well as: "You're always glowing," plus another fan wrote: "MOTHER in the movie and in real life."

The upcoming thriller was directed by Niki Caro and per IMDb, the plot reads: "While fleeing from dangerous assailants, an assassin comes out of hiding to protect her daughter she left earlier in life."

Like this story? Sign up to our newsletter to get other stories like this delivered straight to your inbox.