Twitter recently unveiled a tool that enables creators to entice followers to subscribe to them in exchange for access to exclusive content on the social media network.

So, subscribers can access exclusive content from their favorite producers, for a small monthly price. Additionally, the fee a follower must pay to gain access to benefits under Subscriptions is set by the creator.

While this is certainly good news, a number of Twitter users are noticing an annoying notification asking them to subscribe to Mr. Beast and John Kraus (1,2,3,4,5,6).

They just decided to push into my feed that “someone I follow” paid to subscribe to Mr. Beast on twitter. I prefer silence at this point.

Source

Elon Musk summoning millions of notifications across Twitter asking people to subscribe to Mr. Beast and John Kraus

Source

What adds to the frustration is the fact that individuals who don’t even follow either of the two on Twitter are seeing the notification. Not just that, it would sometimes appear multiple times in a day.

One of the frustrated users feels that if they were interested in Mr. Beast’s content, they would have subscribed to it without Twitter repeatedly suggesting them.

This is undoubtedly getting vexing for those who just want to watch their favorite creator’s content without any distractions.

Sadly, Twitter hasn’t acknowledged the issue as yet. The team also hasn’t commented anything as to why users are seeing multiple ‘subscribe to’ notifications.

We hope that the team addresses the issue as soon as possible. We’ll keep tabs on the latest developments and update this article accordingly.

Note: We have more such stories in our dedicated Twitter section so be sure to follow them as well.

PiunikaWeb started as purely an investigative tech journalism website with main focus on ‘breaking’ or ‘exclusive’ news. In no time, our stories got picked up by the likes of Forbes, Foxnews, Gizmodo, TechCrunch, Engadget, The Verge, Macrumors, and many others. Want to know more about us? Head here.