Wide-spread violence has compelled INEC to cancel Saturday’s Ikono/Ini Federal Constituency rerun election in Akwa Ibom.

Dr Cyril Omorogbe, the Akwa Ibom Resident Electoral Commissioner, told newsmen in Uyo that the rerun election in the area was abysmal.

According to him, the election was called off in all 17 polling units due to the theft of electoral materials, including Bimodal Voters Accreditation System (BVAS) machines.

He said, “The fact is that we had about four local government areas where we conducted elections and one major one was Ikono/Ini Federal Constituency.

“We were there early enough and at about 8:30 a.m., polling units were opened. A couple of hours after we opened the polls, I received a call that BVAS machines were snatched.

“Two hours after that I received another report that was not good. So, the election in Ikono/Ini Federal Constituency has been cancelled.

“They were fighting all through the local government area in the 17 polling units. I received a report from Collation Officers in the area that the election did not hold.   INEC to Tribunal: Why Tinubu was declared winner of presidential electionObi, LP's petitions only fit for the dustbin - INEC tells tribunal

“In the 17 polling units, materials were either snatched or the process disrupted.

“The Collation Officers have all returned and have written their reports. The result sheets they were supposed to fill out are all here in Uyo. Apparently, there was no election,’’ he added.

Omorogbe expressed regret that the violence had resulted in the shooting in the leg of one of the corps members on election duty.

He wondered why politicians in a federal constituency election would be so desperate as to shoot an innocent corps member.

“The corps member was shot; he is still in the hospital,’’ he said.

Omorogbe added that no untoward reports had been received in Abak/Etim Ekpo/Ika Federal Constituency and that results from there would be declared.

He said INEC would decide the next line of action on the Ikono/Ini federal constituency after a meeting in Abuja.