Zendaya was all smiles as she enjoyed a fun day out at Hampton Court Palace with boyfriend Tom Holland on Monday.

The Hollywood actress, 26, looked smitten as she posed for photos with the Spider Man star, also 26, during a guided tour.

The couple were seen making the most of the experience as they sat in two large chairs at a long table which boasted several silver bowls.

Zendaya looked effortlessly chic in a long beige jacket which she wore over a grey co-ord.

The Emmy Award winner toted her belongings around in a large designer bag and donned a pair of reading glasses.

She opted for a grey scarf around her neck and styled her long brunette tresses in a stylish up-do from a centre parting.

Meanwhile her beau Tom looked smart in a navy cardigan which he wore over a crisp white T-shirt and blue denim jeans.

The couple couldn't contain their smiles as they posed with a fan in front of a number of ancient portraits.

It comes after Zendaya gave fans a unique insight into her relationship with boyfriend Tom.

The American star has admitted she still struggles to understand the actor's British accent despite being linked for seven years.

She claims she often struggles to understand what Tom says and is baffled by cockney rhyming slang, despite her beau trying repeatedly to explain it to her.

She told The Sun: 'I love the ­British accent, but as much as Tom tries to explain it to me, I will never understand rhyming slang.

'Like I understand the concept — but what do apples and pears have to do with stairs?

'It’s cute when he tells me all the different phrases — but I really don’t get it!'

The couple were first linked in 2016 when they were both cast in Marvel reboot Spider-Man: Homecoming.

Tom's £2.5million west London home is currently undergoing extensive renovations after he purchased the huge property in 2018.

The couple are also said to have purchased a £3million six-bedroom home in Richmond together.

According to the Mirror, the couple have big renovation plans for their new abode which will include a cinema, a gym and a man cave for Tom.