With 20 minutes to go in today's IMSA race at Long Beach, Wayne Taylor Racing Acura driver Jordan Taylor had two Penske-run Porsche 963s and more than a few seconds between him and the race lead. With two minutes to go, he had passed both and was entering a braking zone ready to take command of the race. Unfortunately for Taylor, and fortunately for Porsche, Taylor ended that corner in a tire barrier.

98 minutes earlier, the first-ever sprint race for the reborn GTP class started in strife. Sebastien Bourdais had the No. 01 Cadillac of Chip Ganassi Racing in position to take second heading into turn 2, but the car locked up under braking and spun out of control well before the corner. At the same time, the Daytona-winning No. 60 Acura of Meyer Shank Racing was spun from second by a BMW heading into turn 2. That led to a quick caution, and an early lead for Wayne Taylor Racing.

The lead would not last, and WTR would be cycled back to fifth as Taylor got in the car during the day's lone cycle of stops. Fourth would become third when the No. 31 Action Express Cadillac stopped off-cycle, then second after the No. 25 BMW locked up chasing one of the two leading Porsches for position. Taylor then chased down the fading No. 7 Porsche of Matt Campbell for second before catching the leading No. 6 Porsche of Mathieu Jaminet in traffic. Taylor put on a chase for the next four minutes, then finally got his opportunity under braking into turn 1 with just a few laps left to go.

Taylor, as it turned out, had braked far too late. He failed to make the corner, handing the overall win to Jaminet and teammate Nick Tandy. The No. 25 BMW and No. 7 Porsche completed the overall podium, meaning that BMW has now scored a runner-up finish in both races after struggling to fight with the other manufacturers on pace in the 24 Hours of Daytona.

In GTD Pro, Vasser Sullivan's No. 14 Lexus RC F GT 3 led handily throughout the race to take a win over the No. 3 Corvette and No. 9 Pfaff Porsche for the class win. Paul Miller Racing's No. 1 BMW M4 GT3 took the win in the pro-am GTD category, the team's third straight class win at this track and second straight with their new-for-2022 BMW.

IMSA returns with a race at Laguna Seca next month, the last U. S.-based event for top-level sports car racing before the 24 Hours of Le Mans. Chip Ganassi's Cadillac Racing and Penske Porsche Motorsport are also participating in tomorrow's FIA World Endurance Championship round in Portugal with separate teams running separate examples of their new LMDh-spec cars.