Altra Industrial Motion (NASDAQ:AIMC – Get Rating) and Hesai Group (NASDAQ:HSAI – Get Rating) are both industrial products companies, but which is the better investment? We will compare the two companies based on the strength of their analyst recommendations, institutional ownership, earnings, dividends, profitability, risk and valuation.

This table compares Altra Industrial Motion and Hesai Group’s gross revenue, earnings per share (EPS) and valuation.

Altra Industrial Motion has higher revenue and earnings than Hesai Group.

This table compares Altra Industrial Motion and Hesai Group’s net margins, return on equity and return on assets.

85.5% of Altra Industrial Motion shares are held by institutional investors. 0.9% of Altra Industrial Motion shares are held by company insiders. Strong institutional ownership is an indication that hedge funds, large money managers and endowments believe a stock will outperform the market over the long term.

This is a breakdown of current ratings and target prices for Altra Industrial Motion and Hesai Group, as reported by MarketBeat.com.

Altra Industrial Motion currently has a consensus price target of $62.00, indicating a potential upside of 0.03%. Hesai Group has a consensus price target of $29.50, indicating a potential upside of 137.14%. Given Hesai Group’s stronger consensus rating and  higher possible upside, analysts plainly believe Hesai Group is more favorable than Altra Industrial Motion.

Altra Industrial Motion beats Hesai Group on 6 of the 10 factors compared between the two stocks.

Altra Industrial Motion Corp. engages in the design, production, and marketing of electromechanical power transmission motion controls. It operates through the Power Transmission Technologies, and Automation and Specialty segments. The Power Transmission Technologies segment focuses on the production of couplings, clutches, and brakes, electromagnetic clutches and brakes, and gears. The Automation and Specialty segment consists of brands such as Kollmorgen, Portescap, Thomson, and Jacobs Vehicle Systems (JVS). The company was founded in 2004 and is headquartered in Braintree, MA.

Hesai Group engages in the development, manufacture, and sale of three-dimensional light detection and ranging solutions, through its subsidiaries. Its LiDAR products are used in passenger and commercial vehicles. Hesai Group is based in Shanghai, China.

Receive News & Ratings for Altra Industrial Motion Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Altra Industrial Motion and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter.