League of Legends fans are just realising the latest buffed and nerfed champions in 13.8 patch | The Sun

Woman earns up to £3,000 a month through ‘exciting’ new career

If you’re ready to fight your family for money, this will help

Homeowners ‘pushed to the brink’ as inflation remains above 10%

Dead Nasa satellite crashing back to Earth TODAY ‘with 1-in-2,467 chance of hitting someone’ – and we know when | The Sun

People are just learning iPhone feature reveals stalkers 'watching' you online – tap it to check list today | The Sun

Billions of WhatsApp users warned over dangerous bank-raiding text – it only takes seconds to lose everything | The Sun

Baby boomers are going bust (and it’ll wipe out your inheritance)

Tens of thousands of people on Universal Credit could lose £390 top-up

Inflation drops to 10.1% in year to March 2023, ONS confirms

Homeowners ‘pushed to the brink’ as inflation remains above 10%

The Office for National Statistics confirmed this morning the Consumer Prices Index (CPI) inflation had dropped to 10.1 percent from 10.4 percent the month prior. High inflation means homeowners are seeing real increases in their monthly repayments, while first-time buyers will see mortgage rates get higher and affordability tests harder to pass.

Chancellor Jeremy Hunt announced plans to bring inflation down to two percent by the end of the year.

However, in a bid to keep inflation under control, the Bank of England may continue to hike interest rates to bring this figure down.

The base rate was recently hiked to 4.25 percent, delivering “more misery to homeowners”.

Alastair Douglas, CEO of TotallyMoney said: “Inflation remains at sky-high levels, and is still a long way off the Bank of England’s two percent target.

“Meanwhile, people’s finances are being pushed to the brink, resulting in an increase in defaults on credit cards, loans and mortgages — a trend which is expected to continue over the next three months.”

Jamie Lennox, director at Dimora Mortgages said: “Although it is positive that there has been a slight reduction, it will likely be seen by the Bank of England as too soon to take the foot off the gas with base rate increases.”

High inflation usually means a high interest rate which in turn pushes mortgage rates up, however, this heavily depends on what type of mortgage one may have.

Those on a fixed-rate mortgage, won’t see the impact of an interest rate rise until the end of their fixed term and they remortgage or move on to their lender’s standard variable tariff.

However, when it comes to remortgaging, it’s likely that they will have to pay a higher rate on their next mortgage if the Bank Rate remains high.

Don’t miss…

Inheritance tax explained: Britons can gift without paying tax[LATEST]

State pension change may mean over 60s wait longer for free bus pass[LATEST]

Nationwide Building Society offers 5% interest – plus chance for £250[LATEST]

Those homeowners who are on standard variable rates or have tracker mortgages will usually see an increase to their monthly payments as their rate is tied to the base rate and can go up or down each month.

Experts suggest that people on fixed deals double-check when their current deal ends and add a reminder to their calendar for when they should start looking for a new deal.

Some banks and building societies will let someone lock into a new rate between three to six months before their old one expires.

Alice Haine, personal finance analyst at Bestinvest, said: “Inflation at 10.1 percent will continue to pose a challenge for mortgages and the wider property market, which is facing an affordability crisis amid high-interest rates and falling real incomes.

“The good news, however, is that although interest rates are at their highest level since the financial crisis, mortgage rates have been on the slide in recent months as many lenders believe interest rates have either already peaked or will do so soon – resulting in more attractively priced products hitting the mortgage market.

“With fixed-rate deals significantly more competitive than they were at the end of last year, and more products to choose between, borrowers must now decide whether taking a two-year or five-year deal will be more cost-effective or whether to take the risk of a variable deal if rates start to edge down again.

“The International Monetary Fund expects the increases in borrowing costs to be temporary once inflation is brought under control, but with such a difficult decision to make, first-time buyers or those looking to refinance should consult a reputable mortgage broker to help them find the right deal for their situation.

“Just don’t overstretch yourself as living costs are still high and with property prices on the slide, the last thing a buyer wants is to fall into negative equity.“

People could consider an alternative option if they are worried about their mortgage repayments: switching to an interest-only mortgage.

With an interest-only mortgage, people repay the interest each month and none of the debt.

This will reduce their monthly payment but their mortgage balance will not go down.

Laura Suter, head of personal finance at AJ Bell explained this isn’t a great long-term solution for lots of homeowners, but it could provide the short-term relief that some borrowers need.

If someone is on an SVR – which is the most expensive type of mortgage rate – people could save hundreds, maybe thousands, of pounds a year by moving to a fixed rate.

For more information, people are encouraged to speak to a mortgage broker if they need help searching for a new product, or if they’re unsure about their options.

Oklahoma Gov. Kevin Stitt speaking to reporters in Tulsa in September 2020. Photo: Jabin Botsford/The Washington Post via Getty Images...

League of Legends fans are just realising the latest buffed and nerfed champions in 13.8 patch | The Sun

Dead Nasa satellite crashing back to Earth TODAY ‘with 1-in-2,467 chance of hitting someone’ – and we know when | The Sun

People are just learning iPhone feature reveals stalkers 'watching' you online – tap it to check list today | The Sun

Woman earns up to £3,000 a month through ‘exciting’ new career

The cost of living is impacting millions of people, with many looking to put a bit of extra money in...

If you’re ready to fight your family for money, this will help

Homeowners ‘pushed to the brink’ as inflation remains above 10%

Baby boomers are going bust (and it’ll wipe out your inheritance)

We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.