Punjab Kings will host Royal Challengers Bangalore in the 27th match of the IPL 2023 on Thursday. With a spirited all-round show, the Punjab Kings had the better of Lucknow Super Giants by 2 wickets to complete their 3rd win in this tournament. Royal Challengers Bangalore on the other hand, got beaten by their arch-rivals Chennai Super Kings by 8 runs on Monday.

The batters always do well here in the first 6 overs however struggle to score runs in the middle overs as the boundaries are quite big. There will be assistance for seamers throughout the game. It’s challenging to chase more than 160 here hence batting first is a good option.

Royal Challengers Bangalore are expected to win this match.

Punjab Kings: Liam Livingstone is still doubtful for this match.

Royal Challengers Bangalore: Josh Hazlewood has started his rehab and might feature in this game.

Virat Kohli was in a hurry to ante up the run rate against Chennai however was unfortunate to get dismissed for 6 runs. Overall in 5 matches in this league, he has scored 220 runs at an average of 55.

Glenn Maxwell uses his experience and picks the right ball to hit. He clobbered 76 runs from just 36 balls against Chennai Super Kings to take his tally of runs to 176 in 5 matches in this IPL. His off-breaks will be highly handy here at IS Bindra Stadium.

Arshdeep Singh is a genuine swing bowler and an even better bowler at the death. He is the best bowler so far for Punjab Kings in this IPL with 8 scalps in 5 matches.

Dinesh Karthik failed one more time to finish the game in this IPL as Bangalore suffered 8 runs loss against Chennai. He has scored 38 runs in his last 5 innings with the highest score of 28. RCB mainly relies on him at the death overs.

Sikandar Raza arrived on the biggest stage with match-winning all-round performances against Lucknow Super Giants, scoring 57 runs and picking up a wicket. He is a game-changer and a must-pick for your fantasy teams.

Despite in the absence of their regular skipper Shikhar Dhawan, Punjab Kings triumphed in the away clash against Lucknow Super Giants by 2 wickets on Saturday. With some special bowling show from their key seamers Arshdeep Singh, Kagiso Rabada, and Sam Curran they restricted Giants to a below-par score of 159 runs and chased down the target successfully in the end with 3 balls to spare. Sikandar Raza’s maiden IPL half-century and Shahrukh’s late flourish of unbeaten 23* runs guided them to a famous win. They are not shy of rotating their players as they made key changes to their playing eleven in the last game and still managed to get vital 2 points. Liam Livingstone is still in the recovery process and is doubtful for this clash.

Royal Challengers Bangalore choked for yet another time after playing so well against Chennai Super Kings and lost the high-scoring thriller by mere 8 runs on Monday. On the entirely flat batting track, their bowlers got the real treatment from the yellow army and conceded 226 runs at the end of 20 overs. Overseas stars Faf du Plessis and Glenn Maxwell played high-quality knocks in the run-chase however couldn’t get their side home. Dinesh Karthik would have done much better after getting a reprieve. Barring Mohammed Siraj the rest of the bowling unit needs to level up their game. They have 2 wins from their 5 matches and it’s a good opportunity to back to winning ways. The chances of Josh Hazlewood playing this match are more.