Queen Máxima of The Netherlands stunned in a shimmering gold mini dress and sunglasses as she stepped out in Milan this evening.

The Queen, 51, looked fierce and fabulous as she put her best foot forward in the fashion capital of Italy to attend a dinner at Palazzo Giureconsulti during her visit to the city.

As she donned the sparkling dress which had Aztec-style gold detailing on the sleeves, paired with stylish gold pumps, she beamed and waved for the camera.

The mother-of-three wore her blonde locks in loose curls handing down her shoulders and shielded her eyes from the rays with a pair of sunglasses.

To accessorise, the Dutch royal opted for chunky gold hoop earrings and a gold clutch bag.

Upon arrival at the Palazzo, Máxima was spotted chatting with the Dutch ambassador, Willem van Ee, and Nicole Uniquole.

The Queen's visit to the city in the north of Italy coincides with the Milan Salone del Mobile 2023, an annual furniture fair.

Her appearance comes as she and her husband, King Willem-Alexander of The Netherlands, confirmed their attendance at King Charles's coronation at Westminster Abbey next month.

Princess Beatrix, the King's mother, and Princess Catharine-Amalia, the heir apparent to the Dutch throne, will attend a reception after the ceremony.

Earlier today, Queen Máxima was looking just as chic in daywear as she does in her evening outfit as she was pictured strolling around the Italian city in a quirky light coat.

The royal turned heads in a Claes Iversen Pazia jacket which featured cut-out holes as she enjoyed a stroll at Parco della Musica in front of the Bosco Verticale building.

Underneath the coat, she wore a vibrant blue suit which she paired with nude Ferragamo leather heels.

She accessorised her ensemble with a £2,815 gold Begüm Khan 'Evil Eye' clutch bag and £723 Cartier sunglasses.

The royal posed for a slew of snaps with Petra Blaisse who is the architect of Parco della Musica, and Stefano Boeri, the designer of Bosco Verticale skyscraper.