Petit Bateau continues to preserve its heritage values through innovation and concrete actions, which blossoms in the brand’s spring/summer 2023 collection

The French childrenswear brand Petit Bateau has three main pillars that have become its keys to existence since it was founded more than a century ago. It’s freedom, quality, and durability, the magic words kept alive and underlined as the motto. The brand commits to connecting children with nature through its high-quality fabric selection and constantly seeks the perfect balance on how each piece can be accessed and spanned the ages.

The latest Spring/Summer 2023 collection portrays those values. Still inspired by nature and beach life – hailing the ship sails logo shape – the collection also highlights childhood dreams where everyone can seek their joy and beyond. Under the blue skies, the kids look vibrant in summery pieces while exploring the ocean with their friends.

For the colours, Petit Bateau keeps in line with its DNA and injects bright palettes for several pieces. The fun part is they make it as if the clothes have been washed out by the sea and dried in the sun. Furthermore, the Paris-based brand also decorates the clothes with a marine theme, putting maps, oases, boats, ports, and wildlife in its prints to create all-year summer dreams for children.

Stripes have always been at the Petit Bateau’s heart when discussing the brand. It may look the same, but if we look closely, they always redesign it each season, even recolour it to freshen the styles: this season, khaki, saline pink, and blue take centre stage. In addition to the stripes, they release soft cargo jeans, oversized shirts, ruffled sleeves, waistcoats, soft bottoms, and colourful raincoats in relaxed silhouettes. All of them are the essentials for cosy vacation attires.

Aside from its excellence in style, Petit Bateau has innovated the brand’s sustainability aspect with materials selected based on less water consumption. Case in point, they generally use linen, organic cotton, and recycled materials. The season’s emblematic raincoat was made from more than 40% recycled polyester obtained through plastic and textile waste with a milleraie lining in organic cotton.

Those juxtapositions between value, DNA, and style make Petit Bateau stands out as a brand. It’s an action that allows children to enjoy their childhood and lets parents buy responsibly. Available at Petit Bateau Plaza Indonesia, Senayan City and Pondok Indah Mall 2 stores.