Midwest (NASDAQ:MDWT – Get Rating) and FOXO Technologies (NYSE:FOXO – Get Rating) are both small-cap finance companies, but which is the superior investment? We will contrast the two companies based on the strength of their dividends, valuation, analyst recommendations, risk, institutional ownership, profitability and earnings.

This table compares Midwest and FOXO Technologies’ gross revenue, earnings per share (EPS) and valuation.

Midwest has higher revenue and earnings than FOXO Technologies.

32.0% of Midwest shares are owned by institutional investors. Comparatively, 73.9% of FOXO Technologies shares are owned by institutional investors. 30.3% of Midwest shares are owned by insiders. Comparatively, 3.0% of FOXO Technologies shares are owned by insiders. Strong institutional ownership is an indication that large money managers, hedge funds and endowments believe a company will outperform the market over the long term.

This table compares Midwest and FOXO Technologies’ net margins, return on equity and return on assets.

Midwest has a beta of 0.58, suggesting that its stock price is 42% less volatile than the S&P 500. Comparatively, FOXO Technologies has a beta of 2.23, suggesting that its stock price is 123% more volatile than the S&P 500.

This is a breakdown of current recommendations and price targets for Midwest and FOXO Technologies, as provided by MarketBeat.

Midwest presently has a consensus target price of $15.00, suggesting a potential upside of 8.01%. Given Midwest’s  higher possible upside, analysts plainly believe Midwest is more favorable than FOXO Technologies.

Midwest beats FOXO Technologies on 6 of the 9 factors compared between the two stocks.

Midwest Holding, Inc. engages in the provision of insurance services. It offers underwriting and marketing of life insurance and annuity products. The company was founded by Rick D. Meyer and Travis R. Meyer on October 31, 2003 and is headquartered in Lincoln, NE.

FOXO Technologies Inc., a technology platform company, focuses on commercializing longevity science through products and services that serve the life insurance industry. The company is developing products and services that combine longevity science with life insurance to support the consumer health and wellness engagement, and to simplify the consumer underwriting journey. It offers FOXO Labs, a services platform that integrates saliva-based epigenetic biomarkers into accelerated underwriting protocols to improve the customer underwriting journey; and FOXO Life, an insurance products platform that offers proprietary life insurance products and third-party life insurance carrier products based on bundling longevity science with life insurance. The company was founded in 2019 and is based in Minneapolis, Minnesota.

Receive News & Ratings for Midwest Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Midwest and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter.