Hair defines a lot about your personality. In fact, the way you style your hair reflects your choices. The world also has its context for every hair type. For instance- short hair is counted as bold, long hair grace, colour hair is a sign of rebellion, and more. Hair has been a symbol of expressing dissent. Given the condition, having frizzy, lifeless hair has created insecurities in me. I mean I love long hair. I envy others who have it, mostly those with long, manageable, and straight hair. I don’t like my hair mostly because of its texture. I cannot be bothered to run a comb through my hair several times a day. Others don’t need to do that. They comb it when needed and it stays in place.

And all I’m asking from my hair is the same comfort that other people’s hair affords them in the aforementioned scenario. It never fails to let me down when I’m counting on it the most. Interviews, events, or when I’m anchoring, events that require me to face the camera, if I haven’t put on styling products to make my hair behave, it is most definitely not going to.

I detest using hair sprays on my hair to tame it as it requires me to shampoo to get it off. Needless to say that using hair sprays regularly will cause damage to any type of hair. I try using aloe vera gel to keep my baby hair and frizz in place, but that doesn’t seem to work after a while. How long you can keep doing it, sometimes it is tiring.

It doesn’t look very attractive either when I let my hair down. I stopped letting my hair down because of it. I always keep it in a bun. I stare yearning at the shiny, treated mane. I currently do not have the budget for hair treatment because one needs to maintain it to keep it looking the same way. I feel insecure about my presentability because of my hair during the occasions that I’m assessed for my presentability.

Something like hair seems cannot bother you but it does. When you see people commenting on your hair, you get cut on your self-confidence. You try a hundred things to get your hair fixed. If it doesn’t the pressure is built, which could convert into anxiety. Despite, me trying multiple solutions I am still there dealing with my har insecurities.

For instance, I tried shampoos and masks, they do little to control my frizzy hair. If anything shampoos make it even more frizzy after a wash. I’m willing to attribute it to my not being able to find the right shampoo for my hair.  When I opt for a conditioner instead, my hair retains its frizzy nature after a while as a result of not getting enough moisture. Even when I tie my hair in a pretty braid. Stray hair will poke out of it, till my entire braid starts looking messy.

I have mixed feelings about getting a hair treatment and changing my hair. I do enjoy the wild spirit and volume of my hair sometimes. However, my hair doesn’t behave on other occasions and I need some control over it which treatment should allow. I don’t know how to get rid of my hair insecurities but let me confess hair insecurities are real. It can make you moody and also be deciding factor whether you want to go out or not.

Views expressed by the author are their own

Suggested Reading: Woman Sets Guinness World Record For The Largest Afro: ‘Conscious Decision To Embrace Natural Hair’