Fort Campbell soldiers quietly filled Clarksville's F&M Bank Arena on Thursday as a slideshow of the "Dustoff Nine" played — the weight of loss could be felt by everyone.

The two memorials honored the nine Fort Campbell soldiers who died last month in an HH-60 Black Hawk helicopter crash during a routine medical training using night vision goggles. The first ceremony was a small private service just for family members at McGregor Park along the Cumberland River, and the second larger memorial packed thousands of Fort Campbell's military family inside the city's new arena.

During the families' service, three of the “Dustoff Nine," as they were referred to during the ceremony, were posthumously promoted by Maj. Gen. JP McGee, commander of the 101st Airborne Division (Air Assault): Cpl. Emilie Marie Eve Bolanos, Chief Warrant Officer 2 Zachary Esparza and Warrant Officer 1 Aaron Healy.

As the service along the river bank came to a close, an aerial salute with a United States Army Chinook Helicopter and three Black Hawk helicopters flew over McGregor Park to honor the nine soldiers. The endearing military term "Dustoff" refers to their mission of emergency evacuations of causalities from combat zones.

Following the aerial salute, the Fort Campbell community gathered to join the families for the memorial inside F&M Bank Arena to pay their respects. As the invited attendees filed inside the arena, service members took turns walking to the back of the arena floor to sign the nine guestbooks of the fallen soldiers.

To the right of the stage, members of the 6th Battalion sat quietly, some wiping their tears, as they prepared to say goodbye to their friends, their brothers and “little sis."

The arena stood still as the families entered and made their way toward the front of the stage — the only sounds heard were their footsteps.

101st Commanding General Officer Maj. Gen. JP McGee began the memorial by reminding the crowd that the "Dustoff Nine" were completing “one of the most sacred missions in our division”.

McGee explained that the 6th Battalion is different from others in the army. They are a medical evacuation team whose sole mission is to help soldiers and ensure they're alive. It was what they were training for on the night of March 29 when their helicopters crashed.

Lt. Col. Tyler Espinoza, commander of the 6th Battalion for the 101st Airborne Division, followed to the podium.

Espinoza's emotions fumbled his opening words before taking a deep breath, starting over and describing that he personally knew the nine soldiers. What a great loss to the 101st Airborne Division has suffered, he said.

“They were the heroes who literally flew to the sound of gunshots and cries for help,” Espinoza said. “Though this was a training accident, these nine were preparing and training to lay down their lives for others in need. I’m honored, and I’m humbled to be your commander.”

Next Maj. Garrett Kuipers got up and told Gold Star and Charlie company to take a look around at everyone that the nine have touched, then he introduced a tribute video honoring each of soldiers.

The video featured colleagues who spoke with passion and started to cry when reflecting on the memories — their words giving everyone a deeper understanding of each soldier.

They were described as “passionate about their jobs," and "larger than life," and "a happy personality and family”.

"The hardest part is these are the people who made me feel safe," one of their colleagues said to conclude the video.

Chaplin Capt. James Updegraff offered in his benediction: “When life deals us a blow like Derek Redmond in the Olympics, like his father, God rushes to comfort."

Then the 6th Battalion came to attention as 1st Sgt. Justin Saint-Jaques called the ceremonial final roll call, echoing through the arena.

He started by calling the first names of each of the nine. Not receiving an answer, he called their first and last name. With still no answer he called their first name, middle initial and last name.

As Saint-Jaques ended the list of nine, a soldier replied: "Sir, they are not here. They are no longer with us."

The biographies of each soldier, provided by the Fort Campbell public affairs office, show varied and decorated careers with missions of bravery completed at home and abroad, earning dozens of medals of honor.

You can visit our live blog to see the live stream of the memorial here: https://www.theleafchronicle.com/story/news/local/2023/04/13/black-hawk-memorial-fort-campbell-honors-victims-in-kentucky-crash/70109034007/.

Liam Kennedy and Kirsten Fiscus contributed to this story.