* The wedding was held at Kiawah Island Golf Resort on Kiawah Island in South Carolina.

* Haley is running against Donald Trump for the 2024 Republican presidential nomination.

Former UN Ambassador and 2024 Republican presidential candidate Nikki Haley took a break from campaigning this weekend to celebrate the wedding of her daughter, Rena Haley, to longtime boyfriend Joshua Jackson.

The wedding was held on April 15 at Kiawah Island Golf Resort on Kiawah Island off the coast of Charleston, South Carolina, guests' social media posts showed.

Rena Haley's wedding dress featured a mermaid silhouette with a deep neckline and side cutouts, while Nikki Haley wore a cream one-shoulder gown with decorative draping along one side. Jackson wore a navy tuxedo with black lapels, as did Haley's husband, Michael, and son, Nalin.

On the morning of the ceremony, Nikki Haley shared photos of earlier wedding festivities.

"As parents you pray your children will find that special someone to go through life with," she wrote. "The day is here and we couldn't be more excited for our daughter and future son. As we start this special day, our hearts are full knowing this is the day the Lord has made…"

At the reception, a Clemson Tigers mascot took to the dance floor — in a nod to where the couple attended college — and the newlyweds made their exit in a vintage white Cadillac flanked by sparklers.

According to WeddingWire, Kiawah Island Golf Resort's wedding ceremony and reception fees start at $20,000.

"We had the sweetest weekend celebrating Rena and Josh," Nikki Haley captioned a wedding photo on Instagram. "Thankful for our sweet family and friends who joined us in supporting and celebrating them. Rena and Josh, we could not be more proud of both of you!"

Rena Haley majored in nursing and minored in psychology at Clemson University, according to her LinkedIn profile. She works as a pediatric nurse in South Carolina.

In July, she got engaged to Jackson, a math teacher and high school football coach who played on Clemson's college football team, after three-and-a-half years of dating. Both stood with Nikki Haley when she announced her candidacy for president in February, along with Haley's husband and son.

Representatives for Nikki Haley did not immediately respond to Insider's request for comment.