Four different nationals from Active Refugees Korea launch second-year project

Active Refugees Korea's (ARK) action-launching year in 2022 coincided with the inauguration of President Yoon Suk Yeol. It was a good opportunity to mark their start ― and they knew it. As Yoon set up his new office in front of the War Memorial of Korea in Yongsan, Seoul, and interviewed candidates for ministerial offices and other key central agencies, the refugee advocacy group got to write a letter to the country's new leader.

"We trust that Republic of Korea, one of the wealthiest countries in the world, can protect more asylum seekers and refugees if it had more political will and practical efforts to do so," the letter read. It was read out loud in English, Korean, French and Arabic before being handed in-person to an official from Presidential Transitional Committee on May 4, 2022.

"But it's truly regretful that Korea so far hasn't carried out an inclusive, consistent set of refugee policies," the letter kept reading. "We sincerely wish that the new Korean government comes out as a more active member of the international community that increasingly requires humanitarian responsibilities, including protecting asylum seekers, amid the intensifying local conflicts and wars across the world."

The letter didn't go ignored. The committee responded on May 21 with its official dossier. It said, "Bearing your valuable opinion in mind, we will humbly and responsibly do our best to reflect your opinion into making future-oriented and innovative national-unity-government." ARK,

said it was a "small but important step forward to establishing a channel of communication and dialogue with the president and the government to fulfill the demands."

Seven members of ARK ― from the Congo, Egypt, Ethiopia and Korea ― continued their campaign in Korea that year, hosting awareness-raising outdoor events and calling for participation by asylum seekers, refugees and supporters of those groups on Facebook. Comments showing interests followed the posts and, with word, it spread, the organizers and supporters went to street gatherings in Seoul for World Refugee Day in June and United Nations' International Day of Peace in September, demanding the rights of asylum seekers and refugees in Korea be properly acknowledged and served.

Social network sites are ARK's main communication channels with the public. That's where the three Korean facilitators from ARK posted a WANTED ad on Facebook for foreign activists to work with ARK and met Bereket from Ethiopia, Dorcas from the Congo and Musab and Mariam from Egypt in 2021.

"We work as a team so everyone participates and shares ideas," Dorcas told The Korea Times at Dongjak FM, a public underground space run by Seoul's southern district office of Dongjak where, according to Bereket, foreign residents of the city often visit for private meetings.

Standing up to fight

ARK, which describes itself as an "ark for refugees from different countries," stands up to fight for their rights rather than conform to Korea's immigration system and local society, which can at times be relatively unaccepting and difficult to assimilate into.

"This is probably the first initiative in Korea which is jointly laid out by refugees and local Koreans," said Bereket. A professional photographer and a freelance journalist for Pressenza, an international press agency, he fled political usurpation in Ethiopia where he had engaged in a propaganda against a rising faction and came to Korea in 2009.

The Koreans and the foreign activists have different roles. The facilitators, using their familiarity with the country, arrange an "empty space" in the country, like a framework, for the rest of the members to fill with their own perspectives and values. This is how ARK strives to be strictly refugee-oriented instead of being planned and orchestrated by Koreans who support refugees.

"Sometimes it feels like time-consuming but we make some consensus where we can all do it together," Kang Eun-sook, one of the facilitators and the bookkeeper of ARK, said. "It's very important because without ARK, there's probably no space in the country where refugee activists (from diverse backgrounds) get together apart from specific ethnic communities or origin of country."

One of the ARK pillars is self-empowerment. It's their attempt to shatter the traditional image of refugees as victims of aggression and passive beneficiaries of humanitarian assistance. It is how refugees in the country have so far seen themselves and how the country expected them to be.

The group deems it as a form of entrapment, which negatively impacts them, robbing them of their right to publicly speak up and demand. The group engages in various workshops inviting lawyers and other local experts. This is done as a way to learn and understand more about the country at a deeper level, which leads them to positioning themselves better in Korean society and come up with demands within the legal boundary.

"Bereket and Dorcas have lived in Korea for more than 10 years each but they haven't had a chance to learn about exactly what's happening in the country," said Kang. "So we needed to educate ourselves and learn the society."

Another pillar is networking with refugees in the country so that ARK can be a bigger ark for more of them regardless of their ethnic, religious and racial background. The biggest hurdle so far has been that refugees never had a common platform and couldn't make a united voice.

The Korean government should learn from other countries regarding how they acquire leverage from refugees, ARK said. Although the country has policies designed to help multicultural families and operates local cultural centers for refugees and migrants, it still considers the foreigners as a burden ― when they should be the subject of more inclusive policies.

"Unlike European and North American countries, the Korean government doesn't have much strategies to integrate and assimilate refugees in Korean society. The government isn't using its power or energy to advocate such initiative. In contrary, they don't appreciate such diversity and try to reverse some of the laws to misuse propagandas and use them against refugees," said Bereket. "Refugees can still engage in economic activities and contribute to the country with whatever they're capable of. They had better be considered cultural migrants with wills to survive in this country."