MANILA, Philippines – TNT put the clamps on Justin Brownlee and neutralized Barangay Ginebra to draw level in the PBA Governors’ Cup finals following a convincing 95-82 Game 2 win at the Araneta Coliseum on Wednesday, April 12.

The Tropang Giga limited Brownlee to a conference-low 12 points and rediscovered their offensive groove by knocking down 15 three-pointers to tie the best-of-seven series at 1-1.

Brownlee set the tone in the Gin Kings’ 102-90 win last Sunday as he erupted for 17 of his 31 points in the first quarter alone.

The three-time Best Import, though, shot a poor 3-of-16 from the field this time after being the main focus of the TNT defense, with Rondae Hollis-Jefferson coming up with an impressive two-way effort for the Tropang Giga.

Producing a near triple-double of 23 points, 19 rebounds, 9 assists, and 2 steals, Hollis-Jefferson also found time to hold Brownlee to a career-worst shooting performance.

“They refused to lose,” said TNT head coach Jojo Lastimosa. “They know that this is a must-win for us. Guys just decided that we’re not going to take this lightly.”

Mikey Williams also delivered for the Tropang Giga with 21 points as he connived with Hollis-Jefferson and Roger Pogoy in a pivotal 13-2 blast late in the fourth quarter that sealed the win.

A Christian Standhardinger free throw pulled Ginebra within 78-82 before TNT unleashed the run highlighted by two triples from Williams and one from Pogoy.

Hollis-Jefferson then punctuated the stretch with a thunderous dunk to push their lead to 95-80 with a minute remaining.

Pogoy bounced back with 17 points on a 3-of-6 clip from deep with 7 assists and 2 steals after putting up just 6 points in Game 1, where the Tropang Giga collectively struggled with only nine triples on 25% shooting.

Calvin Oftana also delivered for TNT with a 14-point, 13-rebound double-double and Glenn Khobuntin added 8 points as a starter.

Standhardinger finished with 29 points and 11 rebounds in the loss that marked the Gin Kings’ first in this playoffs after five straight wins.

Trailing by as many as 16 points, 25-41, Ginebra stormed back and narrowed the gap to 64-67 at the end of the third frame, with Brownlee making up for his offensive woes by posting 10 rebounds, 8 assists, and 2 blocks.

But Brownlee proved to be a non-factor in the payoff period as he went scoreless in the quarter, missing his only field goal – a three-pointer – that caused him to shoot below 20% for the first time in his PBA career.

Jamie Malonzo scored 17 points and Scottie Thompson netted 16 points, 10 rebounds, and 5 assists for the Gin Kings.

Already missing veteran big man Kelly Williams, the Tropang Giga pulled through despite missing Justin Chua, who sat out the match after injuring his right knee in the series opener.