When a rescue dog finally gets adopted from a shelter, it’s a heartwarming moment for everyone involved. However, sometimes those moments are bittersweet, especially if shelter staff have formed a deep bond with the animal in question.

When a dog named Jax was brought into the Regina Humane Society, he was in rough condition, but the shelter recognized how sweet and loving he was.

Speaking with The Dodo, Bill Thorn, the Regina Humane Society’s director, said: “He was very thin, so it seemed like he may have been on his own for a little bit.”

The poor pooch underwent medical care and had a proper diet implemented, but he ended up with a case of pneumonia and couldn’t be put up for adoption until it cleared.

Thankfully, Jax made a full recovery and the rescue shared about his availability on Facebook, but no one seemed interested in adopting him. Many dogs at that shelter are adopted before two weeks is up, but not Jax.

He spent months waiting in the kennel and people continued to pass him by. During that time, he formed a relationship with each staff member that cared for him and they became like his family.

After some time, a man came in and decided to give Jax a chance. The two quickly hit it off and the man decided to adopt the dog.

The shelter shared Jax’s exit from the rescue, noting that he had to stop and say bye to each staff member with a kiss. They said, “It was a tearfully happy Friday afternoon when all the staff gathered to send off our boy Jax. He formed a perfect bond with his new dad, and it was time to go home.”

“After greeting his adopter, he made his way around the room and said goodbye to every person there. It was an incredibly sweet moment to end his long stay at the Shelter. Have a great life, Jax!” they ended the post.

Check out the touching video below:

In a sweet update, the shelter was pleased to announce that Jax seems to be adjusting well to his new home.

They said: “Jax’s dad says he is doing great and is very, very happy in his new home.”

We’re so happy he found a loving place to call home!