The World Metaverse Council is a strategic partner for the upcoming Metaverse Discovery event in Riyadh, a groundbreaking gathering that will take participants on an immersive journey into the Metaverse.

To be hosted at the Crowne Plaza RDC Hotel on June 8, the event will also celebrate the innovative contributions of organisations across the globe to the development of the Metaverse through the inaugural edition of the World Metaverse Awards.

Chris Fountain, CEO of the organising committee for Metaverse Discovery and the World Metaverse Awards, commented: “The Metaverse opens up a world of limitless possibilities. As increasing numbers of organisations are embarking on their own Metaverse journeys, new standards of excellence are continually being set. We believe now is the time to recognise and reward excellence within the Metaverse space and are excited to celebrate the best in global digital talent through the inaugural edition of the World Metaverse Awards in Riyadh.”

The Metaverse Discovery conference and World Metaverse Awards will be presented in association with the World Metaverse Council, which seeks to promote collaboration to create an equitable, inclusive, and decentralised Metaverse with the goal of maximising the incredible socioeconomic possibilities.

Dr Jane Thomason, Inaugural Chair of the World Metaverse Council and the World Metaverse Awards, stated: “The World Metaverse Council is delighted to be coming to Riyadh, where we will celebrate the very best of the global Metaverse experience through the World Metaverse Awards. We are also looking forward to hosting a working group meeting of the Executive Board of the World Metaverse Council in Riyadh. As an early adopter of the Metaverse across multiple sectors, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is an excellent choice for these two highly significant events.”

The World Metaverse Awards will showcase the pioneering achievements of organisations across a range of categories including Finance, Smart Cities, Tourism & Leisure, Healthcare, Retail, and Government. In addition, an individual award will be presented to honor the ‘World Metaverse Leader of the Year.’

An esteemed panel of industry experts will evaluate submissions from across the globe, with a shortlist of potential winners set to be announced ahead of the high-profile event. As Saudi Arabia continues to play a leading role in the drive to unlock the vast potential of the Metaverse, the organisers have selected Riyadh as a natural choice to host the first edition of the awards.

Copyright 2022 Al Hilal Publishing and Marketing Group Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc. (Syndigate.info).