Inflation drops to 10.1% in year to March 2023, ONS confirms

Honor Magic5 Pro flagship phone is available to pre-order TODAY | The Sun

Is Microsoft’s AI-Dominated Future a Place You Want to Live?

Pest control expert share ‘best solution’ to get rid of moths in homes

Copyright in spotlight after platforms pull AI song featuring fake Drake and Weeknd

A $787.5 Million Settlement and Embarrassing Disclosures: The Costs of Airing a Lie

Hundreds of jobs to go at Australia Post

Tea cup stains ‘wipe off quicker than bleach’ with 65p kitchen staple

Inflation drops to 10.1% in year to March 2023, ONS confirms

This morning, the Office for National Statistics confirmed Consumer Prices Index (CPI) inflation had dropped to 10.1 percent from 10.4 percent the month prior. This is likely to be good news for those worried about high inflation, as the measure has slightly cooled.

Alastair Douglas, CEO of TotallyMoney, said: “Inflation remains at sky-high levels, and is still a long way off the Bank of England’s two percent target.

“Meanwhile, people’s finances are being pushed to the brink, resulting in an increase in defaults on credit cards, loans and mortgages — a trend which is expected to continue over the next three months.

“The Government needs to provide a long-term coherent plan, which offers prolonged protection.

“The vulnerable need support, and not the reintroduction of prepayment energy meter force-fittings as announced yesterday, or being exposed to this month’s barrage of bill hikes. And with nearly nine million adults struggling to cover everyday essentials — this is no small problem.

“Letting inflation run wild, and encouraging an increase in defaults will make it more difficult for people to access affordable forms of credit in the future — having a negative impact on their finances for years to come.”

The drop in inflation from 10.4 to 10.1 percent is, however, higher than hoped as analysts had originally predicted a fall to 9.8 percent. It means inflation remains in double digits for the time being.

Colin Dyer, financial planning expert at abrdn, also weighed in, adding: “Inflation rates may have eased for now, but we’re alarmingly far from the Bank of England’s two percent target.

“It’s going to take time to slow the runaway train that is inflation and relentless pressure on household budgets is likely to continue well into the year. We’re seeing the long-term impact of a near 40-year high inflation borne out in a call for higher wages, a wave of strikes and millions of families struggling to cover everyday essentials.

Don’t miss…

Great news for savers as bank hikes interest rates on accounts[LATEST]

State pension payments may not increase until May[INSIGHT]

first direct boosts interest rates on ‘competitive’ savings accounts[UPDATE]

“That’s why we’d urge people to look at ways to beat inflation through smart savings and investments, and making the most of available support with personal finances.”

Chancellor Jeremy Hunt stated the latest figures “reaffirm” the need for the Government to continue to drive down inflation to help families and businesses.

He said: “We are on track to do this – with the OBR (Office for Budget Responsibility) forecasting we will halve inflation this year.

“We’ll continue supporting people with cost-of-living support worth an average of £3,300 per household over this year and last, funded through windfall taxes on energy profits.”

High inflation has had an impact on a variety of groups of people across the UK.

While the state pension increased by 10.1 percent, in the last week it has not kept pace with the inflationary percentage of 10.4 percent.

High inflation also poses a challenge for mortgages and the wider property market, as it dents purchasing power, according to Alice Haine, personal finance analyst at BestInvest.

She previously warned: “Lenders carefully consider purchasing power when evaluating a borrower’s suitability for a mortgage.

“Add in significantly higher interest rates than a year ago – and the potential of further rate increases to come – and first-time buyers and those looking to remortgage will find they can afford less house for their money.”

What is happening where you live? Find out by adding your postcode or visit InYourArea

Lingering inflation is also not good news for savers as it means their savings fail to keep pace with inflation – and lose value in real terms as a result.

While rates have edged up recently, they still remain drastically behind what is needed to meet inflation.

The Bank of England is likely to react to the latest inflation data in its next base rate decision, as Suren Thiru, economics director at ICAEW, added: “This drop in inflation and the prospect of further falls may drive a bigger split in Monetary Policy Committee voting in May as concerns grow over a flatlining economy.”

The meeting of the Monetary Policy Committee – and its feedback – is expected to be delivered on May 11, 2023.

Oklahoma Gov. Kevin Stitt speaking to reporters in Tulsa in September 2020. Photo: Jabin Botsford/The Washington Post via Getty Images...

Honor Magic5 Pro flagship phone is available to pre-order TODAY | The Sun

Is Microsoft’s AI-Dominated Future a Place You Want to Live?

Copyright in spotlight after platforms pull AI song featuring fake Drake and Weeknd

Inflation drops to 10.1% in year to March 2023, ONS confirms

This morning, the Office for National Statistics confirmed Consumer Prices Index (CPI) inflation had dropped to 10.1 percent from 10.4...

Bank boss highlights the number of shops refusing to take cash

We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.