(LĪHU‘E) – County of Kaua‘i officials are urging the public to be vigilant due to potential severe

weather conditions starting Tuesday afternoon and continuing through the overnight hours into

Wednesday morning.

“With the forecast calling for gusty Kona winds, heavy rain, and possible strong thunderstorms,

officials advise caution and avoiding non-essential travel and outdoor activities during inclement

weather,” said Kaua‘i Emergency Management Agency Administrator Elton Ushio. “In several recent

Flash Flood Warning events, multiple residents and visitors had to be rescued after attempting to cross

areas prone to flooding or flash flooding, such as roadways, rivers/streams and low-lying areas.”

According to the National Weather Service (NWS) forecast, a vigorous cold front will bring the

potential for elevated, gusty Kona winds, heavy rain, and possible strong thunderstorms over Kaua‘i

Tuesday afternoon through the evening and into Wednesday morning. According to the NWS, strong

thunderstorms may bring gusts near 50 mph, frequent lightning, visibility near zero in heavy rain, and

the potential for small hail.

The island of Kaua‘i and the state of Hawai‘i remain under a Flash Flood Watch through

Wednesday. A Flood Watch means that conditions are favorable for flash flooding. Residents andvisitors should monitor the weather and be prepared to take action in the event that a Flash Flood

Warning or other severe weather product is issued.

Officials also note that Kūhiō Highway, near the Hanalei Bridge, may need to be closed with

short to no-advanced notice, particularly if a Flash Flood Warning is issued, and that utilities and other

services may be disrupted.

County, state, and federal officials monitor the situation and actively coordinate in preparation.

Officials recommend the following actions when preparing for a weather emergency:

• Emergency Preparedness Kits – Emergency preparedness kits should contain at least a 14-

day supply of food and water (to include non-perishable food and one gallon of water per

person per day). Kits should also include a battery powered radio, flashlight, an extra supply

of prescription medicines and other items specific to individual and family needs. It is also

recommended that face coverings and hand sanitizer also be included in your kits. Set aside

an emergency supply of any needed medication and keep a copy of your prescriptions in

case you run out of medication after a disaster.

• Check Your Property – Walk your property, checking for small outdoor items that could be

picked up by high winds, and check for potential flood threats. If time and conditions permit,

clear your gutters and other drainage systems.

• Make an Action Plan – Discuss with family members what you plan to do if a hurricane or

tropical storm threatens. Make an action plan, which should include details such as whether

your family will shelter in place or evacuate to a shelter. There are no plans to open shelters

at this time; however, the county will work with the American Red Cross to open shelters on

an as-needed basis and will announce a list of open shelters if or when they become

available.

• Outdoor activities – Visitors and residents are urged to check conditions before venturing

out for any hiking, river or beach excursions. Do not cross swollen rivers or streams, andalways check with a lifeguard at any lifeguard station before entering the ocean. Know

before you go. For up-to-date information about Kaua‘i ocean conditions and ocean safety,

please speak to a county lifeguard, visit www.hawaiibeachsafety.com, or call the Ocean

Safety Bureau at 808-241-4984.

• Kaua‘i Island Utility Cooperative – Please visit http://website.kiuc.coop/ to learn more

about how to prepare for a power outage.

• Kekaha landfill and refuse transfer stations – The Kekaha Landfill and County refuse

transfer stations may close due to severe and inclement weather. For more information,

visit kauai.gov/TransferStations or call 808-241-4841.

• Kaua‘i Department of Water – Severe weather storms can cause damage to water systems,

disrupt electrical power to DOW pumps and equipment, block road access to water sources,

and may impact water quality. Customers should prepare for emergency water service

disruptions by having the recommended water storage supply readily available for essential

uses. For more water emergency preparedness tips, please visit www.kauaiwater.org or see

more information at the end of this news release.

• Stay Tuned – Continue to stay tuned to local media broadcast channels for the most up-to-

date information. The following provides a list of important resources on emergency

preparedness.

o Kaua‘i Emergency Management Agency – www.kauai.gov/kema

o National Weather Service – www.weather.gov/hfo, or automated weather line at 808-

245-6001.

To sign up for Wireless Emergency Notification System (WENS), the county’s emergency

notification service, please go to the county’s website, www.kauai.gov and click on “Sign upfor Emergency Notifications.” You may also call the Kaua‘i Emergency Management Agency

at 808-241-1800.