Stacey Solomon was in tears on Saturday, as she shared a montage of candid holiday clips taken by her father.

The mother-of-five, 33, took to Instagram where she uploaded the complication video of herself holidaying with her children in Abu Dhabi.

Stacey could be seen doting on her young family in the sweet clips, sharing special moments together in the sunshine.

The former X Factor star explained that the footage was particularly meaningful, because it had all been taken by her father.

Stacey shares daughters Belle, two months, and Rose, 15 months as well as son Rex, three, with husband Joe Swash, 41, and is also mum to Zach, 15, and Leighton, nine, from previous relationships.

Next to her video upload, Stacey penned: 'I’m crying. So turns out my dad still takes videos of me the way I do of my babies.

'I hardly ever get videos of me like this. It’s usually pictures I force Joe to take so they know I was actually there.

'My camera roll mostly looks like I just popped in with a selfie or in the mirror video… I can’t tell you how emotional I feel right now.

'One day in years to come please g-d the pickles will have these to watch & remember the special times we had

'I don’t care about the angles, my hair, my face, my body or the fact I’m mostly sun creaming everyone half the time.

'I’m just so grateful to have these… forever and always Dad… What an adventure we will treasure forever.'

It comes after Stacey was praised as an 'amazing role model for women' for showing off her 'normal mum body' after posing on the beach in a bikini in Abu Dhabi.

Stacey jetted abroad with her brood and snapped some beautiful pictures in the sunshine for Instagram.

In the post with her youngest child, she looked incredible in a plunging black bikini top and matching bottoms, while accessorising with a straw hat.

Stacey cradled Belle in her arms while Joe and the kids could be seen playing in the sand.

Fans were loving the snaps, saying it was 'refreshing' to see bikini images that weren't filtered, photoshopped or 'expertly posed'.

Alongside the post, Stacey wrote: 'Belle of the beach. A little photo round up of the last two days… featuring Belle’s first look at the sea, Rex & Daddy’s beach hole.

'While Me and the three little ones stayed at the hotel pool for the day. Today was a beach day & we took Belle down to see the sea when it got a bit cooler. Joe took some really nice pictures. There’s not one I’m not putting on here.

'So grateful for these memories, so grateful for my family & so grateful for my body, that brought our family here.'