The following are upcoming events in the Diocese of St. Cloud in the coming weeks. For the full calendar of events, visit https://thecentralminnesotacatholic.org/events.

Collegeville • Third concert in a series of three titled “Echoes of the Divine, A Dialogue between Jewish and Christian Musical Traditions,” begins at 7:30 p.m. in the chapel in Emmaus Hall at St. John’s University. Sponsored by the Jay Phillips Center for Interfaith Learning, the concert and conversation moderated by David Jordan Harris, are free and open to the public.

Belle Prairie • Central Minnesota Together Encountering Christ retreat starts at 9:30 a.m. today and ends around 5 p.m. Monday, April 24, on the grounds of Holy Family Parish (north of Little Falls on Highway 371.) Participants experience the message of the Paschal Mystery — the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ — through music, discussions, talks, prayer, Scripture, liturgy and celebration. Fee is $95, which includes lodging and meals. For more information, contact coordinator Mike Lentz at info@cmtec.org or call 320-532-4455.

St. Cloud • St. Anthony Parish hosts spring rummage sale from 8 a.m. to 1 p.m. in the parish center.

Sauk Rapids • Parish Neighborhood Renewal Ministry hosts spaghetti dinner fundraiser from 4 to 7 p.m. at Sauk Rapids VFW (901 Benton Drive). Event includes silent auction and meat raffle starting at 3:30 p.m. Adults/$10, children 6-12/$6 and 5 and under/free. (PNRM supports teams of missionaries that work to form Base Church Communities in very poor areas of Ecuador.)

Duelm • Fundraiser all-you-can-eat breakfast for St. John’s Area School in Foley held at Jack & Jim’s Event Center from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. Menu includes eggs, French toast, fresh fruit, breakfast sausage and caramel rolls. Event includes silent auction.

Sartell • St. Francis Xavier Parish Gathering in the Arts hosts Spring Bling Sale titled “Baubles, Bangles & Beads” from 4 to 7 p.m. at the church. Sale includes new, vintage and repurposed jewelry, scarves and handbags. (Light refreshments.)

To submit items for this calendar, send information to cmccalendar@gw.stcdio.org or call 320-258-7626.