Role play scenario la: transport a patient in a bed You are Health Service Assistant (HSA) working at Indigo Health Centre. Your patient Anne Blanchette, MRN: 10102030 DOB: 1/06/1941, is an 80-year-old lady admitted to the ED today from home who needs to be transferred to the Palliative care unit after having x-rays taken. The doctor has requested that Anne remain in bed until the findings of the Xray are known. Anne’s vital observations are within acceptable limits, however her Sp02 levels were at 92% on RA upon admittance to ED. Oxygen via nasal prongs @2 L/min was applied by the RN and Anne’s Spo2 is now 96% on 2L/min via Nasal Prongs. The doctor has ordered that the nasal prongs remain insitu until she reaches the Palliative care Ward where she can the be re- assessed. Anne is fully continent, on a normal ward diet and has contact precautions in place for MRSA. You need to ensure you have all the patient’s belongings and medical records prior to transporting her to the X-ray department and x-rays. She said to you that she has been in ED all day and would like to make a complaint to the NUM about the waiting time. She is showing signs of agitation and raising her voice.

Questions Attempt Underpinning Knowledge Question 1: 1 o Discuss your legal and ethical requirements in 2 this scenario with transporting the patient 3 Underpinning Knowledge Question 2: 1 o Could there be any workplace improvements 2 0 that you could suggest in relation to this scenario Underpinning Knowledge Question 3: 1 o What is your duty of care in this scenario 2 0 3 Result

Place an Order

We do custom work 100% original and plagiarism free .If you need help in any assignment just send us requirements with time limit ,we will quote a price and after your confirmation ,we start working on your assignment. An original work ready for submission provided to you

Name*

First

Last

Email*

Description**

Attachment

Drop files here or

EmailThis field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.

Δ