A row has erupted after a prominent Labour MP demanded an inquiry into a notorious City short-seller’s links to Russia.

Liam Byrne, a former chief secretary to the Treasury, has claimed Viceroy Research boss Fraser Perring was ‘a not infrequent visitor to Moscow’ and accused him of working ‘hand in glove’ with another outfit, Boatman Capital, to launch a short-selling attack on UK defence group Babcock.

Speaking in the House of Commons, Byrne called for a debate on ‘the activities of short-selling attack group Viceroy Research and its leader Fraser Perring’. He added: ‘We must ensure that short-selling groups are not another weapon in Putin’s arsenal.

‘Where there are links between short-selling attack groups and the Kremlin, we need to know.’

The comments, which were made last month but have only now come to light, sparked a furious response from Perring, 49.

‘It’s nonsense,’ he told the Mail. ‘I’m not a Russian spy. He could have caused serious damage to my family.’

Perring also claimed that he has received phone calls asking about Byrne’s comments.

Byrne, 52, declined to comment. The Labour MP said he had been told Viceroy worked with Boatman to attack Babcock while it was overhauling the UK’s nuclear submarines.

He also said Viceroy was ‘targeting’ homeless landlord Home REIT, which is suspended from trading on the stock market amid a probe into its finances.

Viceroy published a report on Home REIT last November accusing it of overpaying for properties and misrepresenting the financial health of tenants.

Since then, Home REIT has become mired in escalating crises and is being investigated by the National Crime Agency amid allegations of bribery. It also faces a potential lawsuit amid accusations it misled shareholders.

But in a letter to the MP seen by the Mail, Perring’s lawyers said neither he nor Viceroy ‘have ever worked with Boatman Capital’ and had not been involved in any short-selling attack on Babcock. They denied Home REIT was targeted, saying Perring had simply ‘raised questions and exposed the company’s failures’.

The letter also said Perring has ‘never been to Moscow’ and there were ‘no such links’ to the Kremlin. ‘Accusing him of doing Putin and the Russian government’s dirty work and therefore representing a danger to this country whose activities deserve scrutiny in Parliament, is a very serious allegation,’ it read.

Perring has also demanded Byrne say on record in Parliament that the allegations were unfounded. Viceroy said Byrne’s accusations were ‘laughably and demonstrably false’.

‘Mr Byrne’s ludicrous accusations in the Houses of Parliament are wholly false and have no basis in fact. Any further allegations of Russian spy links are wholly false and uninformed,’ it added.

Viceroy also said that it would be writing to the Parliamentary standards committee about Byrne’s comments.

Byrne, a Birmingham MP, was chief secretary to the Treasury under Gordon Brown before Labour were voted out of office in the 2010 general election.

He garnered widespread attention when he left a note behind saying there was ‘no money left’.

Despite it being a joke, the note was seized upon by the Conservatives and repeatedly used to attack Labour’s economic record. Byrne said the note was something he would regret forever.

Perring became well-known for being one of the loudest voices to raise the alarm over German payments group Wirecard, which collapsed in 2020 after an accounting scandal that saw its chief executive arrested and chief operating officer go into hiding.