Chaturthi, which is day of utmost significance, is dedicated to Lord Shir Ganesh, It arrives twice in a

month. The one that arrives in Krishna paksha is called Sankasta Chaturthi whereas the one that comes after the Amavasya in the Shukla paksha is called Vinayak Chaturthi.. Devotees worship Lord Ganesha especially on these days just to get blessed for a

happy and prosperous life.

This year, on 23 April Sunday, Vinayak Chaturthi is going to be celebrated. Vinayak form of Lord Ganesha is worshipped on this day. Ganesha is known to be eminently pleased if his puja is done on this day. Planetary afflictions are also toned down due to Blessings from Ganesha..

Chaturthi Tithi begin at 7.47 am on Sunday, 23 April 2023, and closes at 8.25 am on 24 April, 2023.

On this day, get up in the wee hours of the morning, complete your morning rituals and wear fresh clothes. Wear red clothes to add more auspicious effects. Take a

sankalpa of Fast and establish an idol of Ganesha on the Chowki. Light a

diya for him and apply Kumkum and sandal paste tilak. Offer Gandha or sandal perfume and red flowers,. Offer Durva as well.

For prasad you can offer him Besan or Boondi laddus. Apart from this, offer him Modak which is his favourite sweet. Offer him Tamboola that consists of Betel nut. Fruits and coconut. Listen to the story of Vinayaka Chaturthi and conduct aarti. You must have not more than a

single meal and eat fruits and milk on this day.

As per the legends, Once Mahadev had gone out of Kailas on an errand. Goddess Parvathi was readying herself for a

bath. She created a

boy from her sweat drops and called him Ganesha. She asked him to guard the bathroom and allow no one to come unless she asks him to let them in. Ganesha agreed and stood on guard for his mother near the bathroom.

When Lord Shiva came back, he asked Ganesha to allow him to go inside the room for which Ganesha refused. In the fight that ensued, angry Shiva severed the head of Ganesha and went it. Parvathi was inconsolable and went into mourning. So Lord Shiva brought the head of an elephant that had just died in the northern direction from the Kailas and Lord Ganesha woke up now in a

different form.

All sorrows of life will be destroyed due to the worship of Lord Ganesha. Vinayak Chaturthi should be followed as per rules and regulations so that even stalled and pending tasks are completed due to his grace. If success is not achieved despite several attempts and struggle, fasting and worshipping him on the day of Chaturthi will help immensely.

Disclaimer:

The information is based on assumptions and information available on the internet and the accuracy or reliability is not guaranteed. Boldsky does not confirm any inputs or information related to the article and our only purpose is to deliver information. Kindly consult the concerned expert before practising or implementing any information and assumption.