Daniel Whyte III, President of Gospel Light Society International, Says that Because no Human Being Understands and Appreciates the Love of God For His Sinful Children Like a Human Father of Children, King Charles III is Allowing His WOKE, Prodigal Son, Harry, to Come to His Historical Coronation, Which Most People Living Today Will See Once in Their Lifetime. However, Just Like a Loving Father, King Charles III Rebukes and Punishes Harry For Allowing His Wife, Meghan, to Dominate Him in Such a Way That Harry Squandered What Made Him Important and Great — the Queen and the Royal Family. THEREFORE, HARRY WILL NOT TAKE PART IN THE CORONATION PROCESSION, AND HE WILL NOT RETURN TO BUCKINGHAM PALACE WITH THE REST OF THE ROYAL FAMILY AND, TO BOOT, HIS WIFE, MEGHAN, AND HIS CHILDREN, WHO ARE BY BLOOD IN LINE FOR THE THRONE, WILL NOT EVEN ATTEND THE CORONATION. Meghan is Refusing to go Because She Does Not Want to Face the Gautlet of the Jezebel BOOs, and That’s Fine. But if Harry Has Any Cojones, he Would Demand That he Takes His Children Because This is a Part of Their Royal Heritage, and the Queen, Who is Now in Heaven, Would Want Them to be There For at Least That Reason. My, my, my! What a Price to Pay For Being a Hen-Pecked, Controlled, and Dominated Man and That For a Divorced and Remarried Woman Who Has Ruined His Life Over Foolishness.

In Fairness to Harry, Whyte says King Charles III Does Not Deserve to be King Because he Did Worse Than Harry. He Was Having Sex With a Man’s Wife While the Man and His Wife Were Still Married, and Then he Brazenly Took That Man’s Wife and Married Her. Now Both Are Living in Adultery. Neither One of Them — Charles or His wife — Should Sit on Anything Resembling a Throne, Nor Should They be Head of the Corrupt Homosexual-Affirming Church of England, Which Has Become More Corrupt Under This King by Expanding its Sodomite Efforts to the Point of Causing the Church of England to Split Around the World Because of King Charles III and His WOKE Unbiblical Views. Make no Mistake About it, it Was the King Who Ordered the Church to Bless Same-Sex Marriages, Which the Balaam Church Cannot do Because the Church of the Lord Jesus Christ CANNOT BLESS THAT WHICH GOD HAS CURSED. Prince William and his Beautiful Wife, Kate, Are the Only Ones Who do Not Have a Divorce and Remarriage Issue, and the Throne Should be Passed on to William After King Charles Spends One Day on the Throne; otherwise, the Good Son, William, and His Queen-like Wife, Kate, May Not Get to Sit on the Throne Because Charles’ Reign May Terminate the Kingdom or Surely Divide the Kingdom.

Prince Harry will attend his father’s Coronation alone, with Meghan set to remain in California, it was revealed yesterday.

After delicate negotiations, described to the Mail as a game of ‘transatlantic ping pong’, Buckingham Palace announced the Duke of Sussex will be at the Coronation ceremony.

But he will be coming alone, with the Duchess of Sussex due to stay at home with Prince Archie – who turns four that day – and Princess Lilibet, one.

His decision to attend the Westminster Abbey Coronation service is viewed as a potential olive branch by royal insiders, following an earlier demand that his family should apologise to him and Meghan if they were to consider coming.

But he is not expected to take part in the procession after the service or join other members of the Royal Family on the balcony of Buckingham Palace, or for other celebrations.

Sources said the decision by Meghan to remain in California with the couple’s two young children had come as a relief in some circles, following fears her presence could have heightened family tensions.

It is also understood there was real concern in the Sussex camp about the public reception the couple would have received if they attended the Coronation together.

Friends, including Meghan’s biographer Omid Scobie, suggested her decision was largely due to the Coronation falling on the same day – May 6 – as Archie’s fourth birthday.

The couple had delayed answering their invitation for weeks, causing difficulties for organisers tasked with complex seating plans, transport and security for senior members of the Royal Family, world leaders and other dignitaries.

Sources described the negotiations as a game of ‘transatlantic ping pong’, and Harry was said to have wanted numerous assurances about arrangements.

The day will see him come face-to-face with his father and brother in public for the first time since the release of his controversial memoir, in which he described a physical fallout with William and branded his stepmother Camilla ‘dangerous’.

Such is the sensitivity at Buckingham Palace over anything to do with Harry and Meghan, only a tiny group of senior officials were party to the conversations between the Royal Family and the Sussexes.

Courtiers have been treading on eggshells for fear of being accused by the couple of ‘leaking’ information about their presence and sparking another round of attacks on the King in the run up to his historic day. And, while many in the royal household contest much of what the couple have alleged, all are keen not to make things more difficult for the 74-year-old monarch.

In the event, the news was specifically timed for a dual announcement on both sides of the Atlantic at 3pm British time to minimise any inflaming of tensions.

A statement in London said: ‘Buckingham Palace is pleased to confirm that the Duke of Sussex will attend the Coronation Service at Westminster Abbey on 6th May. The Duchess of Sussex will remain in California with Prince Archie and Princess Lilibet.’

Harry is only planning on a flying visit, with sources close to the Sussexes indicating yesterday that he won’t even return to Buckingham Palace to gather with the rest of the family or take part in any further events over the Coronation weekend. Mr Scobie tweeted: ‘Expect it to be a fairly quick trip to the UK for Prince Harry.’

Sussex supporters said he understood that it was the biggest day of his father’s life and felt it was right to be present, despite his attacks on the family.

Harry has publicly called on his family to apologise to himself and Meghan for what they see as slights. He also demanded that his father and brother sit down with him before May 6 to thrash their issues out.

But insiders have told the Mail that Charles and William are both hurt and angry at Harry’s behaviour – and neither man has been inclined to pander to him.

The Mail has reported that while William would never have stopped his brother from attending the Coronation, he had no plans to speak to him. It is understood that his opinion hasn’t changed, although no-one is ruling out the possibility – however unlikely – that there could be a gesture of goodwill for their father.

Even those who had once hoped William and Harry could be reconciled feel this is unlikely now. William had no contact with his brother when he came over with Meghan and the children for Queen Elizabeth’s Platinum Jubilee celebrations last year.

And the brothers barely spoke at her funeral later in the year, meeting briefly when William invited him and Meghan to join him and Kate to meet the public and view the flowers outside Windsor Castle.