Skip to main content

You are the owner of this article.

You have permission to edit this article.

The Kings County U18 AAA Kings are Island champions after the fifth and deciding game against the Alberton Regals went down to the wire. The Kings scored three unanswered goals in the third period, including the winner, for a final score of 5-4 in Alberton last Wednesday night. The Kings had been down 2-1 in the series and forced Game 5 with a 10-5 victory in Souris on April 10. Members of the team include Micah Pollard (Murray River), Ryan Steadman (St Peter’s), Connor Gotell (Georgetown), Aiden Wilson (Vernon River), Spencer Miller (Murray River), Mason Power (Peakes), Ethan Lowe (Murray River), Cameron Myers (Alberry Plains), Drew MacDonald (Peakes), Jesse Osmond (Souris), David Sibbick (Cardigan), Matthew MacLean (Morell), Ryan MacLaren (Morell), Rylan MacEwen (Morell), Rowan Walker (Montague), Tyson McGrath (Morell), Thomas MacEachern (Cardross) and Kale McInnis (Souris). Missing from the photo is goalie Jackson MacDonald (Cardigan). Affiliated player Ethan Keenan dressed for the final game. Also in the photo are head coach Kenneth Nicolle and assistant coaches Cory Deagle, Nolan Irving and Jacob MacEachern. The team’s manager was Laureen Steadman. Heather Moore photo

Your notification has been saved.

There was a problem saving your notification.

Email notifications are only sent once a day, and only if there are new matching items.

Please log in to use this feature

Log In

Don't have an account? Sign Up Today

Success! An email has been sent to  with a link to confirm list signup.

Error! There was an error processing your request.

Taking it to the next level

Angling season to open with  several changes to the rules

Sorry, there are no recent results for popular images.

You are logged in

This is the name that will be displayed next to your photo for comments, blog posts, and more. Choose wisely!

Your e-mail address will be used to confirm your account. We won't share it with anyone else.

Create a password that only you will remember. If you forget it, you'll be able to recover it using your email address.

News UpdatesWould you like to receive our daily news? Signup today!

Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in.

Invalid password or account does not exist

Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password.

An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the e-mail address listed on your account.

You are logged in

Macedonia, the former Yugoslav Republic of

How would you like to pay?

I Agree to the Subscription  Terms of Use.

This service will be automatically renewed and your credit card billed once it nears expiration

Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in.

A receipt was sent to your email.

This offer is currently unavailable.