AN ARTIST has shown off how she did a DIY makeover to her boring kitchen on a budget, but it was met with mixed reviews.

Minnie Small, from London, took to her TikTok account to reveal how she managed to do it all with a two minute clip.

In the first scene, viewers could see her kitchen’s state before she got to work. Panning the camera across the room, @minnie_small had light blue walls with simple white cupboards lined across.

“£125 D. I.Y Kitchen Makeover,” she wrote over this before sharing a scene of herself removing all the blinds from the windows.

She then used a Valspar-branded colour sample in Cool Pine, which the brunette beauty bought two of for £16.

Using a brush, she then carefully coated all the blue in the green colour, taking her time to get all the edges right.

After painting, she decided to remove the white covers on all her cupboards and drawers.

After unscrewing all the handles, she used a scraper to remove the covers, which she later said had been on there for several years, making it easier to take off.

Underneath was plain wood, which she then coated in GoodHome’s Antibes Flat Matt cabinet paint that she purchased for £11.

Using a brush and a roller, Minnie painted the wood in the grey-blue colour and waited for it all to dry.

She then found three sets of handles, including gold long ones and smaller green-blue hued ones for £35.17.

For the kitchen counters, she bought wood effect vinyl for £41.94, which created an earthy vibe to the kitchen.

And for the final step, Minnie got removable peel and stick tiles for £27.99 for the splash behind the sink and stove.

“£125 D. I.Y kitchen Makeover!! A few ideas for kitchen D.I.Y on a budget.” she wrote in the caption.

Viewers were left divided on how the project turned out though and took the comments section to share their thoughts.

“Blue and green together? I’m not sure I like. I’d paint the walls an off white,” [sic] one person wrote.

Minnie replied: “Each to their own. we like it and that’s what matters.” [sic]

Another said: “love the green. dont really like the blue. but we’ll done”. [sic]

While a third added: “i dont like the green walls wouldve been better with original blue,” [sic] to which Minnie replied: “We didn’t like it”.

Others, however, were all for the colour combination and made it known through supportive comments.

One person shared: “Very classy. Blue & green combo a winner IMO (and everywhere in nature) Great job!”

“I wasn’t sure about the blue but it looks fabulous! You have a great eye for colours!” another said.

And a third chimed: “Thank goodness someone that doesn’t use the marble affect Love the colours it’s beautiful”. [sic]

Appreciating the compliment, Minnie replied: “Yeah my husband wouldn’t be happy either, he can’t stand marble effect,” followed by a laughing emoji.