U. S. humanitarian organization to provide Ukraine with $10M for rehabilitation development

The U. S. humanitarian aid organization Direct Relief will provide Ukraine with an additional $10 million for the development of rehabilitation.

Direct Relief President and CEO Thomas Tighe stated this at a meeting with Ukraine's Health Minister Viktor Liashko, the ministry's press service reported.

According to Tighe, Direct Relief will continue to provide support to Ukraine as long as it takes. It is also planned to allocate an additional $10 million dollars for the development of rehabilitation assistance.

Liashko thanked Direct Relief for helping Ukraine. According to him, "during working trips around the country, doctors in almost every region expressed their gratitude for constant support. I am glad today to have the opportunity to convey their words of gratitude to you personally."

The minister stressed that the Direct Relief organization was among the first to respond to the needs of Ukraine, and provided numerous humanitarian cargoes with medicines, medical products, trauma kits and equipment.

Representatives of the Health Ministry and Direct Relief discussed ways to strengthen cooperation in accordance with emerging needs and priorities. In particular, they discussed approaches to the accounting, logistics and administration of humanitarian aid.

Separately, the parties focused on energy solutions related to ensuring proper storage conditions. This is especially relevant amid Russian attacks on Ukraine's energy infrastructure.

It is noted that Direct Relief is planning to develop the availability of mobile clinics in the liberated territories, which will ensure access to healthcare for people during the transition period, until the destroyed medical facilities are rebuilt.

In addition, a number of projects related to the training of doctors are being implemented, including rehabilitation care courses.

As reported by Ukrinform, donors from all over the world in the past 11 months transferred more than UAH 1.3 billion through the United24 fundraising platform to support Ukraine's healthcare sector.