Liverpool have been heavily linked with Bayern Munich’s Ryan Gravenberch in recent days.

Last week, Fussball Transfers claimed that the Reds are pushing to secure the 20-year-old’s signature.

The German outlet – via Sport Witness – says there are ‘prominent interested parties’ looking at Gravenberch.

Liverpool are one of those who are keen on him and are ‘now going on the offensive’ to try and secure his signature.

The Anfield outfit is reportedly ‘making a move’ to get Gravenberch ahead of the competition.

More recently, The Times claimed a Liverpool representative recently travelled to the Netherlands last Tuesday.

This was reportedly to hold talks with Gravenberch’s father, Ryan Sr, over a potential move to Anfield.

As well as Liverpool, Manchester United and Arsenal are apparently in pursuit of Gravenberch.

The Reds have reportedly pulled the plug on a move for Jude Bellingham and are now looking for alternatives.

Gravenberch certainly ticks a lot of boxes for Liverpool, including value, as per The Times.

The newspaper claims that the dynamic midfielder should cost around £25million.

If true, this would be an absolute bargain for a young midfielder who has been tipped for stardom.

Julian Nagelsmann previously said the Dutchman “will be one of the best midfielders in the world.”

Meanwhile, Rafael van der Vaart has claimed that Gravenberch is actually a better player than Bellingham.

“What I think is the big difference (between the two players),” Van der Vaart told Ziggo Sport.

“Bellingham is a step lower at a club and always plays.

“I think Gravenberch is better than him, in every way. Especially physically.”

In terms of style of play, Gravenberch’s former Ajax youth coach likened him to France star Paul Pogba.

“Physically, I see Frank Rijkaard because he’s tall and very strong,” Brian Tevreden told the Bundesliga website.

“But technically, I would say he’s a better version of Pogba in his best days at Juventus, in terms of his technique and his presence on the pitch.

“He’s very dominant like Pogba was, and that’s what I see in Ryan.”

All in all, Gravenberch sounds like an outstanding option for Liverpool to sign this summer.

It’s almost baffling to hear how little he could cost, even if he is struggling for regular starts at Bayern.