Skip to main content

You are the owner of this article.

You have permission to edit this article.

There's Another Problem With Boeing's 737 Max (…

Prince Harry Reveals Whether He Will Attend Kin…

Four Rome High Students were hosted by Seven Hills Rotary on Tuesday as winners of the Laws of Life essay contest. From left are Aaron Lewis, Erin River Waldon, Stella Turner and Tess Davidson with the club's president Derek Taylor.

Four Rome High Students were hosted by Seven Hills Rotary on Tuesday as winners of the Laws of Life essay contest. From left are Aaron Lewis, Erin River Waldon, Stella Turner and Tess Davidson with the club's president Derek Taylor.

Aaron Lewis reads his essay to Seven Hills Rotary as the 10th grade winner of the Laws of Life essay contest. He spoke about a river rafting trip that taught him to face his fears.

Rome High's Tess Davidson was the 11th grade winner and presented her essay to Seven Hills Rotary Tuesday.

Erin River Waldon was the essay contest's 9th grade winner and she was also named overall winner by the Seven Hills Rotary Club for her poignant and heartfelt essay.

Stella Turner's essay focused on the grief she felt at the loss of a mentor, Gail Deschamps. Turner was the 12th grade winner for the Laws of Life essay contest.

Your notification has been saved.

There was a problem saving your notification.

Email notifications are only sent once a day, and only if there are new matching items.

Please log in to use this feature

Log In

Don't have an account? Sign Up Today

Updated: Between the Rivers neighborhoods to costar in Netflix film

Rotary Plaza targeted for 'placemaking' ; the idea is to transform the space into a destination

Rain delays filming of 'The Piano Lesson' in the Between the Rivers District

Success! An email has been sent to  with a link to confirm list signup.

Error! There was an error processing your request.

Illini champ Scaroni 'grateful I made it to the finish line'

King tides could slow drainage, cause additional flooding in Fort Lauderdale

Deer Creek Chorale’s ‘Light Beyond Shadow’ spring concert to honor member’s family in Ukraine

Zverev to face O'Connell in last 16 of BMW Open in Munich

Illini champ Scaroni 'grateful I made it to the finish line'

King tides could slow drainage, cause additional flooding in Fort Lauderdale

Deer Creek Chorale’s ‘Light Beyond Shadow’ spring concert to honor member’s family in Ukraine

Zverev to face O'Connell in last 16 of BMW Open in Munich

You are logged in

This is the name that will be displayed next to your photo for comments, blog posts, and more. Choose wisely!

Your e-mail address will be used to confirm your account. We won't share it with anyone else.

Create a password that only you will remember. If you forget it, you'll be able to recover it using your email address.

Rome News UpdatesWould you like to receive our daily news in your inbox? Signup today!

Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in.

Invalid password or account does not exist

Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password.

An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the e-mail address listed on your account.

You are logged in

Macedonia, the former Yugoslav Republic of

How would you like to pay?

I Agree to the Subscription  Terms of Use.

This service will be automatically renewed and your credit card billed once it nears expiration

Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in.

A receipt was sent to your email.

This offer is currently unavailable.