'Finland will do utmost as Nato member to get Sweden...': Finnish foreign minister

Nato Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg (R) hands over Finland's accession to Nato documents to Finnish Foreign Affairs Minister Pekka Haavisto, during a joining ceremony at the Nato headquarters in Brussels on April 4.  — AFP

New Nato member vows to get its ally into the security alliance after Sweden's entry was blocked by Turkey and Hungary even though the two Nordic neighbours had submitted applications together

Soon after Finland formally joined the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (Nato), the world's largest military alliance, on Tuesday as its 31st member, Finnish Foreign Minister Pekka Haavisto said it will put in efforts to make Sweden a Nato member too.

Finland's Ministry of Foreign Affairs announced on Twitter about officially becoming a Nato member nation.

In the video message posted, Haavisto specifically thanked Sweden and said: "We started this process together with our closest ally and neighbour Sweden. Our journey is not complete until Sweden is also a member. We'll do our utmost as a Nato member to get Sweden also in."

Thanking all Nato allies for their "great support throughout this Finnish Nato application process", he further said: "We are now one of the Nato countries happy to be with you. This is a historic day for Finland. We'll be part of Nato's deterrence and defence. Euroatlantic security is key for our country."

Finland's Prime Minister Sanna Marin tweeted: "Finland is entering a new era as a member of Nato. I am proud of Finland and the Finnish people. As a nation, we have been united throughout this historic process. Thank you to our Allies for your trust. Together we will be even stronger."

Nato Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg announced on Monday about Finland becoming a full member of Nato on April 4. His remarks came after the Turkish parliament on March 30 voted in favour of Finland's application to join Nato.

Speaking in a press conference on Monday, Stoltenberg said: "This is a historic week. Tomorrow, we will welcome Finland as the 31st member of Nato. Making Finland safer and our Alliance stronger."

Regarding Sweden, Stoltenberg said that allies in 2022 made a decision to invite Finland and Sweden to become members of Nato and noted that Finland's accession has been the fastest ratification process in Nato's modern history.

On Thursday, the Turkish parliament voted unanimously in favour of Finland's application to join Nato, while also continuing to block Sweden from joining the military alliance, CNN reported.

The vote in the parliament fulfils Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan's "promise" to allow Finland to become part of the military alliance, as per the news report. Turkey was the last Nato member to approve Finland's accession. Following the vote, Finnish President Sauli Niinisto said his country is "ready to join Nato".

In 2022, Finland and Sweden submitted applications to join Nato. A majority of Nato members welcomed the applications of Finland and Sweden except for Turkey and Hungary.

Turkish President Erdogan accused Finland and Sweden of housing Kurdish "terrorist organisations". Meanwhile, Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban said that Finland and Sweden were disseminating "outright lies" about his country's rule of law record, as per a CNN report.

Later, the two nations softened their stance on Finland's accession. However, Hungary and Turkey continue to remain opposed to Sweden becoming part of Nato.

Russia to place N-weapons near Belarus' borders with Nato

Russia not blocking Wikipedia 'yet', says minister Russian minister of digital affairs says there are no plans to shut down free online encyclopaedia, which was fined by a Moscow court for not removing what it deemed as dangerous content

Rise in both passenger and freight revenue enabled state-run company to post 25% higher revenues, while investments into electrification and track and train modernisation increased exponentially

Covid-19 patients who suffer from loss of smell show different activities in brain: StudyPublished in 'EClinicalMedicine', findings suggest smell loss in people suffering side effects of long Covid is clinically reversible by retraining the brain to recover communication between orbitofrontal and pre-frontal cortex

DeSantis steps up pressure on  Disney: New bill could soon end Disney park's exemptions Safety inspection of amusement park's rides, hitherto handled internally by Disney, to be handed over to Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services

Can intelligence be separated from the body?Some researchers question whether AI can be truly intelligent without a body to interact with and learn from the physical world

Power your run with better breathingIf you’re not using your diaphragm efficiently, you’re not getting the most out of your workout, experts say

Son of Iran's last Shah set to make first visit to IsraelReza Pahlavi, son of the last Shah to rule Iran before the 1979 revolution, says he will be delivering 'a message of friendship from the Iranian people'; Israeli intelligence minister praises 'brave decision'

War in Ukraine: Russia, Belarus to be barred from International Ice Hockey Federation events until war endsWith both nations already barred from competing in IIHF events through 2024, its president Luc Tardif said a decision on the two countries' eligibility in 2025 will be made in March next year