The Kremlin has announced the successful test of a new intercontinental ballistic missile, just hours after President Trump warned that the world is facing the threat of “nuclear warming,” which is much worse than “global warming.”

A report from the Washington Times revealed Russia’s ICBM test struck a target at a firing range in Kazakhstan.

The advance came only weeks after Russia confirmed it was suspending its recognition of the New START according, its only remaining nuclear arms control agreement with America.

The report said the Strategic Missile Forces launched the ICBM from a range in southern Russia, to test the missile design.

“This launch made it possible to confirm the correctness of the circuit design and technical solutions used in the development of new strategic missile systems,” Russian officials announced on a social media site.

WND is now on Trump’s Truth Social! Follow us @WNDNews

The test comes as Russia is just into its second year of war against Ukraine, which it invaded. Its military aggression has faltered there, although the exact status of forces is hard to confirm.

President Trump, in an interview with Tucker Carlson this week, warned the threat from “nuclear warming” is a lot bigger than from “global warming.”

He pointed out various players, including Russia, now have weapons “the likes of which the world has never seen before … I’m talking about nuclear.”

He pointed out Russia already has a stockpile similar to that of America, and China will be at that point in a few years.

Citing the two Japanese cities decimated by bombs to end World War II, he said, “Hiroshima, Nagasaki … multiple that power times 500. That’s what you’re talking about.”

He said those detonations actually melted granite.

EDITOR’S NOTE: Question: Why do the political and corporate leaders of America – long the freest, most successful, most prosperous and most Christian nation in history – bow and scrape before China, a ruthless, communist, totalitarian and explicitly atheistic dictatorship openly committed to ruling the world, including America?

The astonishing answers come into focus only when one contemplates both the unprecedented level of political and financial corruption in America’s ruling class (multiple Biden family members received $31 million in payola from China), and simultaneously the communist Chinese government’s brilliantly devious methods of unconventional total warfare, by which China is stealthily infiltrating, subverting, corrupting and colonizing the United States of America.

The China threat has rarely been more dramatically or pointedly documented than in the sensational March issue of WND’s critically acclaimed monthly Whistleblower magazine, titled “HOW CHINA IS CONQUERING AMERICA.” Whistleblower is available in both the popular print edition and a state-of-the-art digital version, either single issues or discounted annual subscriptions.

For 25 years, WND has boldly brought you the news that really matters. If you appreciate our Christian journalists and their uniquely truthful reporting and analysis, please help us by becoming a WND Insider!

Content created by the WND News Center is available for re-publication without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact [email protected].

This article was originally published by the WND News Center.