Everybody’s talking about this product for a reason:

“Ten years ago, after some significant research, we came across GripClad and found these to be the ideal replacement and can honestly say the original ones purchased are still in use today.” Billingham Golf Club.

“It’s a fit and forget solution, job done, and it’s made to last.” Lymm Golf Club, Cheshire.

“The overall wear tolerance is excellent. I would recommend GripClad to any golf club with slippery surfaces issues and the customer service is top class.” North Foreland Golf Club, Kent.

“The price was within our budget but its real value comes from the reduced  risk of slips on the golf course. The members think they work brilliantly.” Oake Manor Golf Club, Taunton.

“We investigated many companies. Looking for a quality product that would last constant use, cost, fixings and a material the staff could fit themselves. We found a company called GripClad that was offering an excellent product.” Lee Park Golf Club, Liverpool.

“The overall dimensions of the GripClad cleats and the various widths that can be selected allowed us to select exactly what we needed.” Newburgh-on-Ythan Golf Club, Scotland.

“It’s been simple to fix and looks attractive. The feedback from members was very positive so we’ve now replaced all the artificial grass with GripClad cleats.” Langley Park Golf Club, Kent.

“The product is truly non-slip. We have a great relationship with GripClad and are proud to endorse their products.” Hillside Golf Club, Southport.

“We find GripClad provides the best wearing, is best looking and provides the best service for us. As well as satisfying. the health and safety agenda.” Royal Dornoch Golf Club, Scotland.

“The members noticed the difference immediately, even at the point of installation. I was thoroughly impressed to find that the grip performed just as well in the rain and hard frost.” The Manor House Golf Club, Wiltshire.

“The service from GripClad has also been excellent.” Enville Golf Club, Staffordshire.

“Just used the product on our course for tee steps. The service was first class and the product meets our needs exactly. Highly recommend GripClad for first class products and fast efficient service.” Southport Golf Academy.

“We wanted a durable solution to help prevent potential slip hazards when the wooden surfaces become wet. Having previously used GripClad anti-slip strips on a variety of steps and bridge surfaces elsewhere on the course for many years, we knew the product would work.” Lee-on-the Solent Golf Club.

Contact Barry Eagle on 07803 848819 or 023 8040 6796, email enquiries@gripclad.co.uk or visit gripclad.co.uk/industries/golf-industry