If you want to see DML NEWS APP articles without ads, click here.

As the most reliable and balanced news aggregation service on the internet, DML News App offers the following information published by WashingtonExaminer:

Manhattan District Attorney Alvin Bragg’s request for a restraining order against Rep. Jim Jordan (R-OH) was declined by a judge on Tuesday. The judge ordered Bragg to send the material to Jordan by 9 p.m. Wednesday so the court could have a hearing on the situation on April 19.

Bragg filed for a restraining order against the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee “in response to an unprecedentedly brazen and unconstitutional attack by members of Congress.”

Lawyers for Bragg are seeking to block a subpoena of Mark Pomerantz, who led the investigation into Trump for the district attorney before he resigned over disagreements with Bragg. The lawsuit said that “Congress has no power to supervise state criminal prosecution” and Jordan is intervening in matters outside of his scope for oversight.

“Chairman Jordan’s demands, including his subpoena to Mr. Pomerantz, seek highly sensitive and confidential local prosecutorial information that belongs to the Office of the District Attorney and the People of New York,” the lawsuit, filed with the U. S. District Court for the Southern District of New York on Tuesday, said. “Basic principles of federalism and common sense, as well as binding Supreme Court precedent, forbid Congress from demanding it.”

The lawsuit seeks to prevent Jordan from issuing future subpoenas against Bragg or “any of his current or former employees or officials.”

U. S. District Court Judge Mary Kay Vyskocil struck down Bragg’s request for a temporary restraining order against Jordan’s subpoena of Pomerantz.

“The Court declines to enter the proposed Temporary Restraining Order and Order to Show Cause,” the judge wrote in the ruling.

Vyskocil said the court would hear arguments regarding Bragg’s motion on April 19 at 2 p.m.

A federal judge won't issue a temporary restraining order right off the bat, but she does set a brisk schedule, with a hearing on April 19.

BREAKING: Judge Mary Kay Vyskocil denies a motion for a TRO now in Manhattan DA Bragg's case against Rep. Jordan, but she asked for a response by April 17 and scheduled a hearing for 2p on April 19. https://t.co/w1PuI04XPr https://t.co/RyXkG2OiEs

To get more information about this article, please visit WashingtonExaminer.

The Dennis Michael Lynch Podcast is available below. Never miss an episode. Subscribe to the show by downloading The DML News App or go to Apple Podcasts.