As Russia’s attack on Ukraine continues and the war rages on, reliable sources of information are critical. Forbes gathers information and provides updates on the situation.

Zaporizhzhia region. The southern city of Zaporizhzhia and surrounding area was targeted in a series of Russian missile attacks on the night of Apr. 16, the eve of Orthodox Easter. Russian forces appear to have shelled a church in the nearby town of Komyshuvakha where, “mercifully, no service was being held at the time”, officials said.

Mykolaiv region. Two 17-year-olds have been killed in the Russian missile fire while on their way to church to have Easter cakes blessing, a traditional way of celebrating Easter in Ukraine. The town of Snihurivka in southern Ukraine was attacked with Russian S-300 missiles on Apr. 16.

Donetsk region. Russian forces shelled the town of Sloviansk in eastern Ukraine on Apr. 14, killing at least 12 people, including a two year old boy, said regional governor Pavlo Kyrylenko. As many as eight S-300 missiles targeted a residential area, partially destroying a five-story building. Rescue operations on the scene lasted for three days and saw the death toll from the attack rise to 12 people, with 22 people injured.

Kherson region. The Tavriia neighborhood in the city of Kherson was hit by Russian artillery fire on Apr. 15, authorities said. The shelling took place near an educational facility and claimed two lives: a 48-year-old woman and her 28-year-old daughter.

Ukraine and Russia carried out a prisoners of war exchange on Apr. 16, Ukraine’s Coordination Headquarters for the Treatment of Prisoners of War announced. In total, 130 Ukrainian troops from the armed forces and territorial defense returned home, 48 of whom were considered missing. Many of the rescued soldiers have injuries, including lost limbs, the report continued.

Ukraine’s Ministry of Sport banned Ukrainian athletes from participating in competitions were Russian and Belarusian delegations are taking part in a decree issued Apr. 14. Deputy minister of youth and sport Matvii Bidnyi believes the ban doesn’t represent a radical change in practice. “I, fortunately, didn’t hear from any current athlete that he or she wants to compete and shake hands with either a Russian or Belarusian athlete,” he said in a comment to Suspline radio, Ukraine’s national broadcaster. “Therefore, this order only establishes certain conditions to protect the interests of our athletes, and their legal right to protest.”

The European Commission called unilateral decisions by Poland and Hungary to ban imports of Ukrainian grain and other goods unacceptable. “Trade policy is of EU exclusive competence and, therefore, unilateral actions are not acceptable,” said a European Commission spokesperson in a statement. “In such challenging times, it is crucial to coordinate and align all decisions within the EU.” The decision came to protect the local agricultural sector, after a flood of supply affected prices across the region.

Slovakia has delivered all 13 anticipated MiG-29 fighter jets to Ukraine, its ministry of defense announced on Apr. 17. “This transfer was carried out by land with regard to the greatest possible security, again huge thanks to all the forces involved, as this was an important and demanding logistical operation,” Slovakia’s Defense Minister Jaroslav Naď stressed. He also reiterated that the transfer of war planes is consistent with Slovakia’s policy of supporting Ukrainian defense capabilities. “Besides, unlike our neighbor, these planes were unusable for us,” he added. “We are doing the right thing.”