Govt Giving Loan of Rs 1 Lakh Under PM Mudra Yojana? PIB Fact Check Debunks Fake Claim

Nagaland State Lottery Result Today 6 PM Live, Dear Hill Wednesday Lottery Sambad Result of 19.04.2023, Watch Live Lucky Draw Winners List

Teacher Records Sex Videos Inside UK Schools! Wales Woman Films XXX Clips of Herself Masturbating With Vibrator in School Classroom and Toilet, Probe On

The 59th edition of Femina Miss India was held in Manipur. With nearly a six-decade-long famed legacy of transforming the lives of young talented women and changing the landscape of glamour and the fashion industry of India.

Rajasthan's Nandini Gupta was crowned Femina Miss India World 2023 in a grand ceremony on Saturday (April 15). Along with Nandini, the country got its new beauty queens of the year including Shreya Poonja from Delhi became the first runner-up and Manipur's Thounaojam Strela Luwang as second runner-up. Miss India 2023 Winner Is Nandini Gupta of Rajasthan, To Represent at Miss World 2024 (View Pics From Femina Miss World India Finale).On Sunday, taking to the official Instagram handle of Femina Miss India, congratulated the winners of the star-studded Femina Miss India 2023 with the caption, which read, " C O N G R A T U L A T I O N S. All of these ladies have a powerful voice and we're sure that they're going to use this platform to further all the important causes that they believe in." They added, "We've seen the passion with which they've worked for these positions and must say that there's no one more deserving! Congratulations, ladies- it's time to celebrate. Let's pop the champagne!" Harnaaz Sandhu NEARLY FALLS on Miss Universe 2022 Stage, Watch Emotional Video of the Indian Beauty Queen As She Crowns Her Successor.Talking about the background of our Femina Miss India 2023, she hails from Kota. The 19-year-old beauty queen holds a bachelor's degree in Business Management. The 59th edition of Femina Miss India was held in Manipur. With nearly a six-decade-long famed legacy of transforming the lives of young talented women and changing the landscape of glamour and the fashion industry of India. The vows to continue its tradition of creating influential beauty ambassadors, supporting young women in their quest to explore their potential and empowering them to become a positive force for change.The grand finale ceremony held on April 15 was a star-studded affair and celebrated the ethos of beauty in diversity. The evening kickstarted with a breathtaking performance by the former winners of the pageant, Sini Shetty, Rubal Shekhawat, Shinata Chauhan, Manasa Varanasi, Manika Sheokand, Manya Singh, Suman Rao and Shivani Jadhav - dressed in exquisite and finely crafted lehengas from Mohey.Moving onto the show, the audience was entertained by the highly anticipated performances by Bollywood actors Kartik Aaryan and Ananya Panday. The evening's proceedings were led by Manish Paul and Bhumi Pednaker who kept the audience engaged with their wits and improvisations.The gala event witnessed multiple rounds of captivating fashion sequences featuring the beautiful 30-state winners in a stunning collection by Namrata Joshipura for Trends, Rocky Star and Robert Naorem showcasing traditional costumes. The state winners were judged by an elite panel consisting of Femina Miss India Universe 2002 and Mentor Neha Dhupia, boxing icon Laishram Sarita Devi, ace choreographer Terence Lewis, film director and writer Harshavardhan Kulkarni and distinguished designers Rocky Star and Namrata Joshipura. The state winners interacted with the jury panel and took to their questions with great confidence.The showpiece contest culminated in the coronation ceremony, wherein the outgoing queens crowned the new winners. Nandini Gupta of Rajasthan was crowned Femina Miss India World 2023, who will go onto represent India at the Miss World content.

Lifestyle

Who Is Nandini Gupta? Know About Newly-Crowned Miss India 2023 From Rajasthan Ready to Represent Country In Miss World 2024 (View Photos)

Cricket

Kane Williamson Likely to Get Ruled Out From ODI World Cup After Suffering Knee Injury During IPL 2023: Report

Fashion

Manushi Chhillar Birthday: Royal Looks, Regale Fashion Choices - She's Blessed With the Perfect Combination

'It Takes Time To Settle Down in Marriage': Supreme Court Refuses To Use Powers of Article 142 To Dissolve 40-Day Union of CoupleTeacher Records Sex Videos Inside UK Schools! Wales Woman Films XXX Clips of Herself Masturbating With Vibrator in School Classroom and Toilet, Probe OnHeatwave in April in Asian History: Severe Heatwave Causes Deaths, School Closures in India, Record-Breaking Temperatures in ChinaChandra Grahan 2023 Date and Time: All You Need to Know About Forthcoming Penumbral Lunar Eclipse Event			Read More

Mumbai Water Cut News Update: Good News for Mumbaikars! BMC Rolls Back 15% Water Cut Decision, Normal Supply of Water To Begin From April 23Peacock Attacks Two Persons Stealing Eggs From Its Nest, Rare Retaliation Video of Blue Bird Goes ViralMadhya Pradesh Train Collision: Two Goods Trains Collide With Each Other Near Singhpur Railway Station in Shahdol; Motormen Injured, Two Railway Workers Feared Trapped (See Pics)Salary Hike for Cognizant Employees: IT Giant Announces Appraisal, Raises Pay of Over 3 Lakh Workers in Third Increase in Last 18 MonthsDisney Layoffs 2023: Entertainment Giant Planning Another Round of Sackings, To Eliminate Thousands of Jobs This Month, Say Reports

Today's Trends

Benadryl TikTok Challenge: What Is the Viral Benadryl Challenge? Second Death Due to Dangerous Trend As Johnson & Johnson Issues Statement Over Dangers of Online Challenge

Amid Fear of Layoffs, Bain Offering New Recruits USD 20,000 To Become Yoga Instructors, Go on Safari in Bid To Delay Their Start Dates: Report

Salary Hike for Cognizant Employees: IT Giant Announces Appraisal, Raises Pay of Over 3 Lakh Workers in Third Increase in Last 18 Months

Disney Layoffs 2023: Entertainment Giant Planning Another Round of Sackings, To Eliminate Thousands of Jobs This Month, Say Reports

India News | Is GDP Overestimated or Underestimated? Congress' Jairam Ramesh Highlights Article by Central Statistical Office Ex-DGsIndia News | As India Becomes World's Most Populous Nation, Cries Grow Louder About Depleting ResourcesHow to Avoid the Crowds on SantoriniLatest News | Paint Companies to Log 10-12 Pc Growth in Revenue This Fiscal: Report