Aston Villa fans are enjoying themselves right now as the Villans sit sixth under Unai Emery – a rise which surely fills Carney Chukwuemeka with regret.

The 19-year-old forced a move away from Aston Villa back in August 2022 and chose to join Chelsea in a £20m deal.

At the time, it was a decision which Gabriel Agbonlahor criticised, and his comments have aged well.

Well, a number of talents have fizzled out at Chelsea over the years, such as Ross Barkley and Josh McEachran.

Stamford Bridge is not known for being a place where young prospects thrive, which is exactly what Agbonlahor told Chukwuemeka back in August.

Speaking on talkSPORT, the 36-year-old said: “For Villa, it works for them, they have sold him for £15m with add-ons. What does it say about Chelsea? We will give you what you want? Chelsea have got that reputation of always giving young players too much money at a young age. Is he going to be inspired?”

Agbonlahor predicted a difficult time for Chukwuemeka in west London, and that is exactly what has happened.

The England Under-20 international has only made one Premier League start so far this season, and has already seen three managers hold the reins in Thomas Tuchel, Graham Potter and now Frank Lampard.

To put it simply, it is a far cry from the settled environment Chukwuemeka needs to fulfil his vast potential.

In our view, the teenager surely regrets his decision to leave Villa Park.

The Villans are currently 11 points ahead of Chelsea in sixth place after a run of seven wins and a draw from their last eight Premier League fixtures, and a place in next season’s Champions League is still possible.

Chukwuemeka surely regrets missing out on such a campaign in favour of sitting on Chelsea’s bench.

Furthermore, Emery is a fine coach when it comes to working with young talent, getting Jacob Ramsey back to his best while also playing a key role in the development of Bukayo Saka and Gabriel Martinelli at Arsenal.

Therefore, we believe the Spaniard would have used Chukwuemeka regularly in his midfield, and may also have been likely to coach the Austria-born wonderkid into a Premier League star.

Unfortunately, things did not turn out that way, and Chukwuemeka must now attempt to turn around a difficult situation at Chelsea.