The global hernia mesh devices market size was valued at USD 5.4 billion in 2022 and is poised to grow at a significant CAGR of 3.2% during the forecast period 2023-29. The primary drivers of the expansion of the global hernia mesh devices market include the growing prevalence of hernia, high adoption of surgical meshes as a treatment option, improved healthcare facilities, the rapid growth of healthcare infrastructure, government initiatives, advancement of technology, and sedentary lifestyle practices. The global hernia mesh devices market further reveals that the key players are increasingly adopting strategies such as the launch of newer products, product launches, and long-term alliances to improve market revenue share and gain significant geographic presence across the region.

The global hernia mesh devices market segmentation:

1) By Hernia Type: Inguinal Hernia, Incisional Hernia, Femoral Hernia, Umbilical Hernia, and Others

2) By Mesh Type: Biologic Mesh and Synthetic Mesh

3) By Procedure: Open Surgery and Laparoscopic Surgery

4) By End User: Hospitals, Ambulatory Surgical Centers, and Others. Inguinal hernia is most common among them, almost 80% of hernia is an inguinal hernia. According to a clinical review, Inguinal hernias account for 75% of abdominal wall hernias, with a lifetime risk of 27% in men and 3% in women. Repair of inguinal hernia is one of the most common operations in general surgery, with rates ranging from 10 per 100 000 of the population in the United Kingdom to 28 per 100 000 in the United States. Hence, this segment is expected to account for a larger revenue share in the global hernia mesh devices market, with a value share worldwide

The Asia Pacific market is expected to increase in the global hernia mesh devices market over the forecast period. The Asia Pacific market is expanding as a result of the region’s fast-paced lifestyle, large patient pool, and growing demand for innovative healthcare facilities. North America held a considerable market share during the estimated period due to the growing prevalence of hernia, improved healthcare facilities and infrastructure, and the high adoption rate of surgical meshes. However, the global players in this region are influencing the hernia mesh device market with their initiatives and investment in the research and development sector.

The global hernia mesh devices market key players are Medtronic, Johnson & Johnson Services Becton, Dickinson and Company, W. L. Gore and Associates, Atrium Medical, Allergan, B. Braun Melsungen AG, Integra Lifesciences, Baxter International, Herniamesh, Ariste Medical, and Deepblue Medical.

About Precision Business Insights:

We are a market research company that strives to provide the highest quality market research insights. Our diverse market research experts are enthusiastic about market research and therefore produce high-quality research reports. We have over 500 clients with whom we have a good business partnership and capacity to provide in-depth research analysis for more than 30 countries. In addition to deliver more than 150 custom solutions, we already have accounts with the top five medical device manufacturers.

Precision Business Insights offers a variety of cost-effective and customized research services to meet research requirements. We are a leading research service provider because of our extensive database built by our experts and the services we provide.