Skoda Auto India has launched the Skoda Slavia Anniversary Edition sedan at Rs 17.28 lakh (ex-showroom, India) and this special edition of the Slavia sedan sits above the top-spec Style trim level.

In addition to that, the newly launched Anniversary Edition of the Skoda Slavia sedan is available in both manual and automatic transmission variants, and the latter is priced at Rs 18.68 lakh (ex-showroom, India).

That being said, the newly launched Skoda Slavia Anniversary Edition features the 'Lava Blue' exterior shade and comes exclusively with the more powerful 1.5-litre, 4-cylinder, turbocharged petrol engine (1.5 TSI engine).

In terms of features and safety systems, the new Skoda Slavia Anniversary Edition comes with all of the features and safety systems available in the top-spec 'Style' trim level. On top of that, the special edition sedan also comes with a

few other embellishments.

Noticeable changes on the exterior of the Skoda Slavia Anniversary Edition include chrome-finished front grille ribs, front and rear mud flaps, chrome garnish on the lower part of the door and boot, and 'Anniversary Edition' branding on the C-pillar.

The interior also comes with a

few changes including 'Anniversary Edition' Scuff plates, sporty-looking aluminium pedals, a

steering wheel with Anniversary Edition badging, and a

set of Anniversary Edition headrest pillows and textile mats.

Speaking about the Skoda Slavia, the Czech sedan is built on the same MQB-A0 IN platform as the Skoda Kushaq SUV, and both models come with two petrol engine options.

The 1.5-litre, 4-cylinder, turbocharged petrol engine (1.5 TSI) produces 148bhp of peak power and 250Nm of peak torque. Gearbox options with this engine include a

6-speed manual transmission and a

7-speed DSG unit.

On the other hand, the 1.0-litre, 3-cylinder, turbocharged petrol engine (1.0 TSI) produces 113bhp of power and 178Nm of torque. Furthermore, this engine can be specified with either a

6-speed manual transmission or a

6-speed torque converter automatic gearbox.

Recently, Skoda has also updated these powertrains to comply with the RDE and BS6 Phase 2

emission norms in India. In addition to that, the updated powertrains have become more fuel efficient and are compatible with the latest E20 petrol.

With the launch of the Skoda Slavia Anniversary Edition sedan in India, the Czech car manufacturer will be able to gain the attention of potential buyers in the country. This will have a

positive effect on the overall sales figures as well.