The Service Agency is facing consequences. Donal meets Ald and Celeste.

Gottrim looked at the huge billboard across the park from the government building and grimaced. The attempted torching  of the “Service For All” headquarters had turned into yet another debacle as Lieran Ironshield had turned the fire into even more donations and offers to repair the building. Even worse it made the GEA looked like scared bullies, assaulting women. Horal was waiting in the hall and said, “We need to talk.”

“No kidding. Was is one of your idiots who torched the “Service For All headquarters?”

“None that will admit to it. Let’s go into your office. It may have been somebody else.”

They sat down and Horal said, “We want to send Toniania and some others to Redtree or someplace else that Congress can’t get to them easily.”

“That isn’t urgent right now, is it? Congress isn’t even in session.”

“Better to do that now than later.”

Gertag and Rosanhi stepped out of the airline terminal and the Greencap placed their luggage into the waiting cab. Gertag told the driver to go to a hotel he knew about, only to have the driver drive right by the hotel. Gertag called out, “Stop! That was our hotel!”

“Don’t worry about it. I’m Durlan Fox and a lady wants to talk to you.”

“Just go along. I think that the lady is on the same page as your mother.”

“Just what is going on?”

“It will be a good thing if certain people do not know that you are back in the country unless you are publically tied to your grandfather and I suspect that there are good reasons why you don’t want that to happen.”

“The old cotton warehouse, though one of them has burned down?”

“Yes it did, something that pleased your mother, as she didn’t have to have it torn down. Here’s your stop. Go right into the office.”

Gertag and Rosanhi did and there, in the office was a lady that Gertag had known about, but had never met, something that had pleased him greatly. He had done some discreet shipments for her office in the past that he didn’t talk about. The lady said, “Gertag Cutflame, sit down. I am Sarya Steelmaker. Who is this with you?”

“This is Rosanhi Zumkas. We did some things and she seems to like me. Why did you want to speak to a truck driver, Mrs. Steelmaker?”

“What did your father tell you to do?”

“You didn’t just come down here to introduce this lady to your family, since you could have easily done that in the Empire and I doubt that you are here just to take odd trucking jobs. Your father sent you here to hand a message to some people and I can guess what it is after that press conference where Mr. Barrin tried to use your father and brother to smear Congressman Flyer again.”

“I don’t have to tell you.”

“No, you do not. On the other hand, I can brief you on what is going on without being a connection to your family and doing jobs for me will cover some things. You have worked for me before, even though we did not speak directly.”

“Dad wants the Axemaker campaign and the rest of the Democracy Party campaigns to have shipping issues. Dad said that he wants me to tell certain people that he is calling in all his favors and that he can get Fallingwater red. Then I am to support the Flyer campaign discreetly.”

“With Miss Zumkas, who is a member of Richard’s little committee. Is he involved?”

“Dad didn’t say. I don’t think that he is, yet.”

“Why is your father doing this, Gertag?”

“There has been more or less an unspoken agreement that the families would be separate. We wouldn’t do anything to support the Congressman and the Congressman would not talk to us. That Barrin character went over the line and dad is making the point that doing that has consequences. The clowns on the mound should have known better after Luggergate and right out of the box, they go after my brother for eating in a restaurant with some buddies.”

“So? I’m not sure how he met the Great Captain, but I can see that taking him to lunch is something to do and Kellam likes meeting people.”

“He eats there all the time. He bought my brother and his buddies lunch. He was probably looking for me.”

“Your mother may be seen as breaking the agreement. She has been visibly smacking some rather powerful people around.”

“That’s the big reason I’m here. I can stay in the background and watch their backs.”

“If the spotlight finds you, that could be trouble. One thing the country can’t afford is for your grandfather’s campaign to fail.”

“Just what has been going on? I have been up in the Empire and not paying attention.”

“It started with some files not getting burned and the President wanting something investigated.”

Sarya detailed the events of the last two years and when she finished, Gertag said, “What a mess. Well, I did my Service in the army, so I am a citizen and can take over the family businesses if I have to. Unless you have a problem, I’ll play things the way I planned, the family member that can’t get any job other than truck driver. I’ll help the campaign and my sister out, while maybe seeming to be a little crooked. In the meantime I will quietly let it be known that my father wants some people to have difficulties.”

“You will want to avoid actually doing anything illegal.”

“I know. At least nothing that they can hang on me. If I can make that clown Sunbeam look more foolish than he has already, that will work for me. If I can get both him and Senator Steelslash at the same time, that will be great.”

Sarya smiled. “I see that you have been thinking about some of this already.”

“Swifty and Sthisse haven’t been on the road, facing harassment from FSA clowns. Swifty played that special agent on the bridge all wrong, running right down to Kellam’s like that.”

“I think that I want to introduce you to Faghig and Tigerlilly. Then I think that you had better go next door and see what you can do for your sister.”

Faghig had gone out on an errand with Tigerlilly, so Sarya led Gertag and Rosanhi to the main floor of the warehouse where Gertag’s sister was apparently coordinating campaign events. She spotted Gertag, ran over and hugged him. “Gertag, you came. Who is this?”

“This is Rosanhi Zumkas. Her father works for Lord Qinvaris and she has been assisting me in getting some things done.”

“Welcome to the family, Rosanhi. This isn’t a good time. Fortunately this is college break, except for the Naval Academy. What can you do, Rosanhi?”

Rosanhi smiled. “What do you need done? Some of us do not have fixed jobs in the Qinvaris and do all sorts of things. I can handle large amounts of things being sent to places, for instance and accounting isn’t a problem.”

“Could you help me set up campaign packages for places that we can just send with everything ready? I’m trying to break into districts that have been Democracy Party strongholds.”

“I’ve never done something like that before, but I haven’t let that stop me.”

“That will work for now. I don’t think that dad would send my brother here just to have you meet the family when we could do that in the Empire or over in Ishendell. Did you bring a gown?”

“I want you at the thing at grandfather’s tonight so that you can meet with mother. Unfortunately we are stuck with that. I have a party here tomorrow for a younger voter crowd.”

“I won’t be there,” Gertag said. “Dad’s orders, so I will be skipping things at grandfather’s and your things. Dad wants me in the background, so I am playing the simple truck driver who can’t do any better.”

“Don’t take the garage on Waterfront St.”

“We’ve used it too much and certain people know about it. I’ve rented it to the Mortal Kingdoms’ consulates and Swifty’s friends have been using it for their scheming.”

“What are they up to?”

“Not as much as they were. A bunch of girls were taken and some boys brought them back. There have been other things since. Mostly it has been helping with the “Service For All” campaign. Swifty has been told to stay out of things until the election is over, and so should you. Use the Waterland garage.”

“Why? Just pull one from the Qinvaris pool.”

“Not for this. I need to be an independent, having a griffon on the cab would be rather obvious and driving a brand new truck will attract attention. So I’ll pick up a used truck.”

As Gertag left his sister’s workroom, there was an orc waiting for him. “I am Faghig. The lady next door says that you drive a truck.”

Gertag smiled. “I’m Gertag. I do. I’m going shopping for my own rig this afterten. Do you want to come?”

As they headed to the el, Gertag said, “How did my sister end up with the lady in her party building. I will have to ask my sister how she managed to get the building, later.”

“One of the other warehouses had some crooked types doing something they shouldn’t and the warehouse burned down. Strangely enough, the lady’s office moved just before the fire started.”

“Those buildings have been potential fire traps as long as I can remember. Now to find the flashiest truck I can.”

“To cement the opinion in some people’s mind that I am idiot.”

“I think I know who you are talking about.”

Vinnie sat down across from Inky and said, “I had an interesting tip. Gertag Cutflame and an elf lady flew in this afterten from Ishendell.”

“The older Cutflame brother. Did his Service in the army and drives a truck. He’s been up in the Empire with his father.”

“What did he do in the army?”

“We haven’t paid any attention to him. This is interesting. Keep an eye on him.”

“Mother, Rosanhi just got off the plane. Gertag brought her down and ran off to buy a truck.”

“Buy a truck? He didn’t need to do that. Why did he just leave Rosanhi with you?”

“There are reasons, Milady Cutflame” Rosanhi said. “The Committee wanted someone here more or less invisible in any case”

“Did you have my son for cover or did you come down for other reasons?”

“Other reasons. I helped with some things he was doing and we went through the Program together while you were here. So we have been enjoying ourselves.”

“Why haven’t I met with you already? You and Gertag seem to have become rather serious.”

“We were busy and you never stayed still long enough. So we kept just bumping into each other at things.”

“I hadn’t known that you and Gertag were serious. Of course I was busy. We will have to have a long chat now that you are here. This is my mother, Gail Flyer. Are you going to be available for our little project here?”

“I am. Gertag is supposed to be in the background, per his father’s orders.”

“Gertald got the news about the press conference. I imagine that he was annoyed.”

Kredror sat down at the table in Vikz’s and grinned. “Moving up in the world, Izzie? Usually, I have to buy the lunches.”

“You are. I collected a bonus. At least I will when I hand you the envelope.”

“Gertald Cutflame again. I got another interview after that rather nasty press conference.”

“I want it. That’s why you flew down from Ishendell, isn’t it.”

“It is. Actually, I flew down with the last member of the family not here. He is the disreputable truck driver. That is off the record.”

“I think so. He wasn’t happy when we told him the story about the restaurant and rather annoyed when his past was used to attack his father in law last year. Inky going after Swifty was the last straw. I think that he saw that as stepping over the line.”

“I know. I think that some people are in for a surprise.”

Donal rode into a city that even for a resident of A’I Alora was rather amazing. As he rode toward the inn that had been pointed out to him, he passed a young noble girl in a pretty dress with a servant with a wheelbarrow. She apparently had a garden and the boy was feeding a newly planted tree with the contents of the wheelbarrow, if what he heard from the loudly speaking girl was any indication.

Donal laughed as he left the pair behind. He arrived at the inn and after bedding his horse, was told where the duc had his townhouse and what the duc currently was. He wasn’t sure that he believed the tale, but at least being a landdragon would make the duc instantly recognizable.

Ald turned to Celeste as he pushed his wheelbarrow and said, “That man on the horse made me feel funny.”

“As if I should know him,even if I have never met him.”

“That is strange. Are you sure that you never met him?”

“Yes. He had a strange badge that I have never seen before. He isn’t from the duchy.”

“Well, he isn’t our concern. Let’s get the Tree fed so that we can do other things.”

“Have you found out anything more about me on the oracle?”

“Nothing for sure. We think we know who your grandmother is and talked with her, but she hasn’t come on the oracle since then.”

“If she is an old lady, all you girls on the oracles probably drove her off again.”

“We do serious things too, I will have you know,” Celeste sniffed and then they laughed together.

Rolain stood before his queen and said, “That was a nasty little mess.”

“Ald’s mother was murdered as a consequence of jealousy, greed and the same fear that made a mage a target for murder. The Bailiff’s wife was behind it for the most part, though the bailiff himself and the lady’s cousin were full accomplices. The cousin carried out the deed, supposedly in a fit of rage at the woman for warming the bed of someone else. Considering that she was considered the town’s whore by most of the town, that was a bit ridiculous. There was also the fact that Ald’s mother was Silverin and as such, didn’t age very fast. The Bailiff’s wife’s comment was that she looked twenty and as such, was a witch. That made it easier for the wife to convince the other two to go along with the scheme when the Brother wouldn’t arbitrarily send the woman to the stake.”

“The duc, either one of them, was not. Most of that was the fact that the ducs spent their time in Altensee and the house had a warden for the most part. Count D’Artan was the Bailiff’s cousin and arranged the position in the first place. He may have been receiving a tribute from the bailiff and may have known of the little plot after the fact, but there was no direct evidence of that as the Bailiff did not keep a ledger of such things. What he did keep was Ald’s mother’s papers, including her will and the fact that her son was the titleholder to the D’Flier estate come his majority, since his father was dead.

“The Brother thinks that the Bailiff planned a little accident for Ald if he wasn’t hauled off by mage hunters, but the Brother managed to convince Ald that not being at the chapel was good thing when the priest came around with the scanner and both the Brother and Ald were suspicious of the bailiff, but neither were in a position to say anything until your sister asked Ald about his mother. Once I started to ask questions the thing fell apart fairly quickly.”

“What about the bailiff and his wife.”

“I turned them over to the queen’s justice, the trial was swift and so was the axe. The cousin is still at large someplace. I brought Ald’s mother’s things back with me. Ald has the house the bailiff was living in, some coin, the estate on the side of the city here and the County of Riverlands as well as some other properties. I haven’t had a look at the accounts yet, but his mother had accounts in the bank in Altensee.”

“So he can draw from the reserve?”

“Yes. Of course, he will not need funds for some time. I will have to find a warden for his estate and someone to manage his affairs. I will want to discuss that with his family if I can find them. There is a sister mentioned in the will that I want to find and clear things up with.”

“You are in luck. Celeste latched onto Ald and she and her friends started to look into just what Ald was.”

Rolain laughed. “Do you think that your sister likes Ald?”

“She likes him very much.”