"All is mind; the universe is mental" you say, huh? "Consciousness is the foundation of reality" you say?

Yes, that is the great wisdom of the great esoteric traditions. That is the wisdom of the Hermetica and the Kabbalah which is just a racist Hermetica.

It sounds super intuitive, right? IT SOLVES THE HARD PROBLEM OF CONSCIOUSNESS! Right?? Mystery solved, case closed: consciousness does not emerge, it is ITSELF the first principle. Yes, an elegant solution to this eternal mystery.

What if I told you, that you are retarded?

Now "the hard problem of consciousness" is gone, but YOU HAVE SPAWNED A NEW HARD PROBLEM YOU DIMWIT LARPERS! "The hard problem of MATTER"

If all is material, then it is impossible to derive the emergence of consciousness. But if all is MIND, it is impossible to derive the emergence of MATTER. Its a circular problem, neither mentalism or materialism can be a solution. Any attempt to derive one from the other is conjectural.

Just admit it you greasy faggots, you are LARPING!

You are weak fools who satisfy your power fantasies by playing God.

The Mysteries will forever be Mysteries. Accept your weakness.>>34588648

>If all is material, then it is impossible to derive the emergence of consciousness. But if all is MIND, it is impossible to derive the emergence of MATTER. Its a circular problem, neither mentalism or materialism can be a solution. Any attempt to derive one from the other is conjectural.

doesn't make any sense if consciousness is omnipotent and man is a filter for it. matter is conscious energy slowed down until you can't pass thru it. all it is.>>34588648

>>34588671

Another thing, of I walk into a room or onto a street, that place is a projection, a mental map, of my consciousness. Kabbalah is the study of this and it is very real. Not a mystery to a lot of people.>>34588648

>Kabbalah which is just a racist Hermetica.

Uh oh. Guess OP doesn't like duh Jooz.

>What if I told you, that you are retarded?

I don't disagree because I'm still reading this long-winded OP.

It would make anyone retarded.

>it is impossible to derive the emergence of MATTER. Its a circular problem, neither mentalism or materialism can be a solution. Any attempt to derive one from the other is conjectural.

Congratulations you just discovered non-duality.

Yeah there are no separations in the Universe. No shit.

>Just admit it you greasy faggots, you are LARPING!

You suck.

>You are weak fools who satisfy your power fantasies by playing God.

Ah so this is what the butt hurts all about.

What's the matter? Does it offend you God is the source of everything? That God isn't as closed minded as you are?

Get used to it Newbie McGee you have more to learn. Your gatekeeping means bollocks in this field.>>34588700

Shut up faggot

> I don't disagree because I'm still reading this long-winded OP. It would make anyone retarded.

Yes

> Congratulations you just discovered non-duality. Yeah there are no separations in the Universe. No shit.

Therefore my assertion is correct, and it is larp to treat mentalism as a first principle.

No u.

> What's the matter? Does it offend you God is the source of everything? That God isn't as closed minded as you are?

Its the opposite. YOU are the one offended by omnipotence. Your failure to grasp the ramifications of omnipotence is what lead you to pursuing this larp.>>34588715

Nope.

I agree your exhibit A.

>Therefore my assertion is correct, and it is larp to treat mentalism as a first principle.

Nope it just means you lack deductive reasoning and are trolling your way out of it.

Your beliefs are dogshit.

Nah. You do suck. You suck so much you can't even spell your pronouns correctly.

>Its the opposite. YOU are the one offended by omnipotence. Your failure to grasp the ramifications of omnipotence is what lead you to pursuing this larp.

You're just projecting.

Suck a fat dick and deal with it Rosery boy.>>34588722

*you're, you suck so much you can't even spell contractions correctly

> Nope it just means you lack deductive reasoning and are trolling your way out of it.

So then you are asserting that mentalism IS in fact the first principle?

This too goes in a circular direction, what if YOU are the one projecting?>>34588733

>So then you are asserting that mentalism IS in fact the first principle?

No you're just a retard and have mindfucked yourself.

Nice word salad.

>This too goes in a circular direction, what if YOU are the one projecting?

Well now you're just projecting that too.

You are 100% actually retarded.>>34588737

To put it in simpler terms, are you claiming that the foundation of the universe is in fact mind? I ask this because when I said it is larp to assume that the first-principle of the universe is mind, you said that I lack deductive reasoning. Is that understandable to you?

> Well now you're just projecting that too.

You don't know what projection means.>>34588746

>To put it in simpler terms, are you claiming that the foundation of the universe is in fact mind? I ask this because when I said it is larp to assume that the first-principle of the universe is mind, you said that I lack deductive reasoning. Is that understandable to you?

Okay. Then let go of your foundationalism.

That's easy.

>You don't know what projection means.

I do, you're just gaslighting me now.

Get to your point OP.>>34588749

> Okay. Then let go of your foundationalism.

You didn't answer my question, I am asking YOU what YOU believe. Do you think mind is the source of matter, yes or no?

> Get to your point OP.

When you answer the above question, my point is for you to justify that belief. Since you seem to believe in mentalism, I am asking you to justify it.>>34588764

>You didn't answer my question, I am asking YOU what YOU believe. Do you think mind is the source of matter, yes or no?

What do you believe?

You came here OP.

>When you answer the above question, my point is for you to justify that belief. Since you seem to believe in mentalism, I am asking you to justify it.

You're just categorizing me into that box into your mind because you can't think outside your perspective.

Not my problem. Who is the great master, the magician that makes the grass green?>>34588648

(Delivers a spirited and well-meaning Rebuttal)

(Waves a magic wand and refuses to elaborate)>>34588648

That's not a "hard problem" you midwit. Reality is the interface between fragments of consciousness which are acting independently. The entire idea is there is no matter, it's a figment of our shared imaginations and exists as a necessary manifestation of the bounds of consciousness communicating with other consciousnesses.>>34588866

No you are the midwit for failing to understand your own mind. You are unable to see the basic assumptions you are making for your worldview to make sense.

So I'll tell you what it is. You are ASSUMING that reality is consciousness. And you are assuming this CONJECTURALLY.

Just as one may assume CONJECTURALLY that reality is PHYSICAL.

Do you understand?>>34588648

>But if all is MIND, it is impossible to derive the emergence of MATTER

Matter is illusion>>34588909

No, jackass, I'm stating, factually, that PEOPLE are conscious and "reality" is the interface between those independent conscious actors.

No, our beliefs are not equal, you're just fucking wrong.>>34588952

Okay, so this is an even more retarded understanding than I first thought.

It seems like you haven't heard of the whole HARD PROBLEM OF CONSCIOUSNESS thing.

It is FAR from a fact that we are conscious, if we define facts as things which we can empirically/rationally verify. It is just something that we feel, and many things that we feel are true are actually not consistent with facts.

Thats literally the entire basis of the hard problem of consciousness. If you want to assert that consciousness is a fact, then go ahead and try to justify it in a non-circular way.>>34588952

*Continued

What you don't understand is that in order for your mentalist beliefs to make sense, you have to ASSUME that matter is illusory.

But in order for materialism to make sense, materialists simply ASSUME consciousness is illusory - a deterministic product of matter.

In both cases you are making a very strong assumption for literally NO REASON.The mind never plays tricks on itself?>>34588648

>But if all is MIND, it is impossible to derive the emergence of MATTER

Uhh, what matter? The matter we experience with our minds? The matter that could simply be an illusion?

Look, here's the truth:

There is an infinite, all-powerful being. But, he's bored and lonely (because he's infinite, he's everything, yes it makes no sense, we're not infinite, it cannot make sense to us, that's literally the idea).

Anyways, he bored and lonely and starts dreaming up other worlds. Worlds where people and things exist. The problem is, the worlds don't make perfect sense, so the inhabitants keep "remembering" that they're really just an infinite being. So he keeps dreaming up worlds until he dreams of us, here on earth. A world that exists exactly as it would *if* there was no divine creator.

So on one hand, you've got a divine being that really does exist, and on the other hand, you live in a very real, very cruel world where nothing will ever be handed to you. Both.

The LARPing I see is anyone who thinks they can petition this creator...you can't. It's literally the idea of this place: somewhere god isn't. The real wizards are the ones who bust their asses being productive all the time. Stop fucking with mindless crap and MAKE AWESOME STUFF. Make it out of cardboard. Make it out of duct tape. I chose glass, because I'm boujee like that and I want to share the awesomeness of creation with people and people are drawn to glass.

Everyone acts like god is something that requires worship...it doesn't give 2 shits. What it wants is for you to CREATE things"What if I told you, that you are retarded?" made me lol, thnx OP

also agree. the brain rot of people yelling shit like "consciousness is everything!! you are consciousness!!!" is pretty exhausting