Batch of 2024, CHRIST (Deemed to be) University.

I applied by emailing my CV, Cover Letter and Writing Samples to info@pavanduggalassociates.com.

I worked remotely during my tenure of the internship. Pavan Duggal Associates exemplifies a strong and resilient corporate culture, as well as a well-developed mentor system and newcomer support.

Here you will receive support and advice on how to improve anything, and, more importantly, your suggestions will be heard and are likely to be implemented.

During the internship, I learned useful practical knowledge and skills, as well as a greater sense of responsibility and diligence. It was fascinating to get a behind-the-scenes view of consulting and speaking with seasoned lawyers. I am confident that such an experience will be beneficial to me and will aid me in my profession.

I’d also like to mention that the associates are true professionals with a wealth of expertise, but also incredibly friendly, open, and willing to assist at any time. Though the internship is online/ remote based there are several noteworthy impacts that it makes on the intern’s learning experience.

The first is that at Pavan Duggal Associates, you can genuinely put your knowledge to work and learn new things. You’ll be working on a variety of genuine projects right away, and you’ll be able to track your work with the customer from the first message to the last.

The second point is that this is unmistakably a group effort. They are interested in your work, and you will receive comments, and the friendly environment will allow you to get involved immediately.

Third, an internship like this allows you to clear up any doubts you may have about your future profession by fully immersing you in the “legal world,” where each student has the opportunity to put their skills to the test and see that the work of a lawyer is not just a series of repetitive actions, but a complex process requiring more than standard thinking.

The work environment was healthy, professional, and very interactive. Moreover, I’d like to thank Pavan Duggal sir in particular for the engaging activities and his feedback, since his suggestions helped me to identify both my strengths and the qualities and talents that needed to be improved.

I am grateful for the opportunity to obtain new practical information that will be valuable not only in technology law but also in everyday life because the Pavan Duggal Associates team teaches human values in addition to professional ones.