Skip to main content

One of the gifts that God has given me is the love of books. If you love books too, I hope you will spend some time with me and a hot cup of tea.

Good Night, Body: Finding Calm From Head to Toe by Britney Winn Lee starts off with a note to parents about how to use this book to guide children to learn to feel more at home in their precious bodies. This book measures a little larger than nine inches square and is 40 pages long. It is aimed at early elementary children from ages four to eight. Good Night, Body is sort of an interactive bedtime book. It is a book that could help children get the last wiggles of the day out and start to settle down and relax. Several of the exercises are for relaxing. It could be fun to do this book together as a family. I like the illustrations so well. They are inclusive of people of all skin colors and include differently-abled children as well. It is a beautiful book both in the writing and in the pictures. This book is just a clean reading activity book and does not include Scripture.

I received a copy of this book from the publisher. All opinions within this review are my own.

A Better Than Anything Christmas by Barbara Reaoch

As families spend more time inside together this year, an Advent workbook/journal may be just the thing to help everyone stay focused on the real reason for Christmas A Better Than Anything Christmas  by Barbara Reaoch is a unique book that can inspire everyone in the family--no matter what age or experience. A Better Than Anything Christmas  has a devotion for all age groups for every day of Advent starting on December 1. Each day has four parts: Explore, Explain, Engage and Enter In. The Explore section involves reading the Bible passage of the day together and answering a couple of questions. The Explain section relates the passage to our modern life today with a short reading. Then the Engage section asks questions and the questions are written for both older and younger children or for those who know Jesus versus those who do not. It ends with a prayer and a journaling page in the Enter In section. Extra pages are in the back for families who have more than one person who wants

Essential Speed Reading Techniques: How to become a Better, Faster Reader by Katya Seberson

Essential Speed Reading Techniques  by Katya Seberson is a small book that could pack a big punch in your reading life.   Essential Speed Reading Techniques  starts out by explaining what speed reading is and what it is not. If you thought speed reading was just skimming a book like I did, Seberson will define what it really means in this book and how to use it to your full advantage. While I read this book, I am not yet a better, faster reader. I am improving, but as the author shares, this is a process that takes time and is a skill worth learning. Seberson offers both advice and practice exercises in this book to help you learn and grow into the reader you want to be.   I was impressed with Essential Speed Reading Techniques . I would recommend this book to anyone and everyone who wants to be a better reader. I think that as I use the techniques in this book that I will continue to improve in both my reading time and my comprehension.   Essential Speed Reading Techniques  releas

Are you someone who likes to entertain at home? If you're like me, your answer is probably, not really. Gather and Give: Sharing God's Heart Through Everyday Hospitality  by Amy Hannon offers a lot of wonderful encouragement and advice from the author. If you want to entertain more but aren't sure where to start this book may help you. Hannon talks about how to offer up your home with whatever you have to offer. The book starts out with an introduction and then is divided into three parts: Understanding Hospitality is the first section. In this section, I learned that hospitality isn't really an option if you believe the Bible. . .Rather it is a command. Hannon talks about that command and how she came to write this book to encourage readers to gather more. She says we can all do it well--and doing it perfectly just isn't necessary. Just because she has a restaurant, is a pastor's wife and all doesn't mean she is better at it than anyone else, she says. We