The Sultanate in the southeast of the Arabian Peninsula and the world’s leading tourism trade show announce official cooperation

The Omani Ministry of Heritage and Tourism and ITB Berlin announce that the Sultanate of Oman will be the official Guest Country of the world’s leading travel trade show in 2024.

“ITB Berlin is a strong platform to showcase the diversity of the many offerings Oman has to offer in the growing tourism industry,” said His Excellency Salim Al Mahrouqi, Minister of Heritage and Tourism of the Sultanate of Oman.

“We are delighted that the Sultanate of Oman will be the host country in 2024 and are determined to provide the international travel industry with an immersive and sustainable experience that will appeal to all possible senses and meet all expectations,” adds His Excellency.

The minister had already signed a declaration of intent at ITB Berlin 2023 during an informal ceremony to seal the cooperation at an early stage. This was followed by the official signing of the contract with David Ruetz, Senior Vice President, Messe Berlin.

“Oman has had a strong presence at ITB Berlin for many years and we are very impressed with the tourism offering and diversity of this destination,” David Ruetz emphasised. “We are delighted to have secured such an attractive partner for next year’s show in the Sultanate.”

The country in the south-east of the Arabian Peninsula inspires with its over 5,000-year-old history and is known for its multifaceted nature. Travellers can expect a hospitable destination and a natural paradise rich in contrasts that attracts relaxation seekers and activity lovers alike. In addition to golden sand dunes and green oases, the sultanate impresses with high peaks and imposing caves as well as kilometres of sandy beaches and cliffs. Outdoor activities such as snorkelling, hiking and climbing round off the range of tourist attractions.

About ITB Berlin and the ITB Berlin Convention

ITB Berlin 2024 will take place from Tuesday to Thursday, 5 to 7 March. ITB Berlin has been the leading trade show for the global travel industry since 1966. As before, the internationally renowned ITB Berlin Convention will take place parallel to the show and live on the Berlin Exhibition Grounds. At ITB Berlin 2023 some 5,500 exhibitors from 161 countries presented their products and services to more than 90,000 visitors. The ITB Berlin Convention 2023 took place live and was held under the motto “Mastering Transformation”. It attracted a total of 24,000 participants in 200 sessions with 400 top speakers.