Jodie Foster and Kali Reis star in the official teaser trailer for True Detective: Night Country, which will debut later this year.

Jodie Foster and Kali Reis star in the official teaser trailer for True Detective: Night Country, which will debut later this year.

HBO has dropped the official teaser trailer for True Detective: Night Country, the fourth installment of the ground-breaking crime franchise.

Set during Alaska’s long night, True Detective: Night Country stars Jodie Foster as Liz Danvers, a detective who teams up with Evangeline Navarro (Kali Reis) to solve the disappearance of six men. In addition to Foster and Reis, Night Country stars Fiona Shaw, Finn Bennett, Isabella Star Lablanc, Aka Niviâna, Anna Lambe, and Joel D. Montgrand with Christopher Eccleston, and John Hawkes.

The True Detective: Night Country teaser trailer paints a fantastic tale of hot-headed detectives and a chilling mystery. You might also notice what appears to be a spiral very reminiscent of the one seen in the first season of True Detective. Possible crossover or just an easter egg? Issa López serves as showrunner of True Detective: Night Country and also writes and directs all the episodes. True Detective creator Nic Pizzolatto isn’t involved this time as he parted ways with HBO but he is credited as an executive producer.

The first season of True Detective starred Matthew McConaughey and Woody Harrelson and remains one of my favourite seasons of television. The second season brought Colin Farrell, Rachel McAdams, Taylor Kitsch, Kelly Reilly, and Vince Vaughn onboard, but received mixed reviews compared to the first. The third season fared better with a story revolving around Mahershala Ali, Carmen Ejogo, Stephen Dorff, Scoot McNairy, and Ray Fisher. It’s been a little over four years since the release of the last season, so I’m more than ready for another True Detective mystery.

“When the long winter night falls in Ennis, Alaska, the eight men who operate the Tsalal Arctic Research Station vanish without a trace,” reads the official description. “To solve the case, Detectives Liz Danvers (Foster) and Evangeline Navarro (Reis) will have to confront the darkness they carry in themselves, and dig into the haunted truths that lie buried under the eternal ice.” True Detective: Night Country doesn’t have an official release date, but it’s expected to debut later this year.

What did you think of the True Detective: Night Country teaser trailer?