Beasley Broadcast Group (NASDAQ:BBGI – Get Rating) will be releasing its earnings data before the market opens  on Wednesday, April 26th. Persons that wish to register for the company’s earnings conference call can do so using this link.

Beasley Broadcast Group (NASDAQ:BBGI – Get Rating) last announced its quarterly earnings results on Thursday, February 16th. The company reported $0.31 earnings per share for the quarter. The company had revenue of $72.03 million for the quarter. Beasley Broadcast Group had a negative net margin of 16.98% and a negative return on equity of 0.15%.

Shares of NASDAQ BBGI opened at $0.76 on Wednesday. The company’s fifty day moving average is $0.98 and its 200-day moving average is $1.02. The stock has a market cap of $22.64 million, a price-to-earnings ratio of -0.52 and a beta of 1.13. Beasley Broadcast Group has a twelve month low of $0.75 and a twelve month high of $1.81. The company has a quick ratio of 1.86, a current ratio of 1.86 and a debt-to-equity ratio of 1.28.

Separately, StockNews.com started coverage on Beasley Broadcast Group in a research report on Friday, April 14th. They issued a “hold” rating for the company.

A hedge fund recently bought a new stake in Beasley Broadcast Group stock. Raymond James Financial Services Advisors Inc. bought a new position in  Beasley Broadcast Group, Inc. (NASDAQ:BBGI – Get Rating) in the first quarter, according to its most recent disclosure with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The institutional investor  bought 15,300 shares of the company’s stock, valued at approximately $27,000. Raymond James Financial Services Advisors Inc. owned 0.05% of Beasley Broadcast Group at the end of the most recent quarter. 10.91% of the stock is owned by institutional investors.

Beasley Broadcast Group, Inc is multi-platform media company, which engages in the operation of radio stations in the United States. It operates through the following business segments: Audio, Digital, and Esports. The Audio segment refers to the sale of commercial advertising to customers. The Digital segment focuses on the sale of digital advertising to customers.

Receive News & Ratings for Beasley Broadcast Group Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Beasley Broadcast Group and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter.