Skip to main content

You have permission to edit this article.

Or get a Day Pass for only $1.99!

Sign up for news in your inbox every day!

COVID-19 | Get the latest updates on Coronavirus

Wyoming and the West | News from around Wyoming

High Wind Warning from TUE 11:00 AM MDT until WED 3:00 PM MDT

...HIGH WIND WARNING IN EFFECT FROM 11 AM THIS MORNING TO 3 PM

MDT WEDNESDAY...

* WHAT...West winds 35 to 50 MPH with frequent gusts up to 75 MPH

expected. Wind gusts may occasionally exceed 80 MPH.

* WHERE...Central Laramie Range and eastern Platte County

including Glendo, Wheatland, Chugwater, and the Bordeaux

Interchange along Interstate 25. Southern Laramie Range and

adjacent Foothills including Interstate 80 between Laramie and

Cheyenne.

* WHEN...11 AM MDT this morning until 3 PM MDT Wednesday. Brief

periods of strong winds will be possible this afternoon and

early evening due to showers and thunderstorms. A more intense

period of strong winds will develop overnight into early

Wednesday.

* IMPACTS...Mainly to transportation. Strong cross winds will be

hazardous to light weight or high profile vehicles, including

campers and tractor trailers.

PRECAUTIONARY/PREPAREDNESS ACTIONS...

A High Wind Warning means a hazardous high wind event is expected

or occurring. Sustained wind speeds of at least 40 mph or gusts of

58 mph or more can lead to property damage.

This page displays the most recent milestones from each section.  To see more please click "View More..." below each section.

Add your obituaries with us.

Let us announce your engagements.

Let us announce your anniversary.

Let us show off your little one's birth.

You are logged in

This is the name that will be displayed next to your photo for comments, blog posts, and more. Choose wisely!

Your e-mail address will be used to confirm your account. We won't share it with anyone else.

Create a password that only you will remember. If you forget it, you'll be able to recover it using your email address.

News Updates - Rawlins TimesWould you like to receive our daily news? Sign up today!

News Updates - Wyoming Business ReportWould you like to receive our daily news? Sign up today!

Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in.

Invalid password or account does not exist

Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password.

An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the e-mail address listed on your account.

You are logged in

Macedonia, the former Yugoslav Republic of

How would you like to pay?

I Agree to the Subscription  Terms of Use.

This service will be automatically renewed and your credit card billed once it nears expiration

Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in.

A receipt was sent to your email.

This offer is currently unavailable.