There are few things more devastating than losing your beloved best friend. And it’s understandable: Our pups are members of the family and hold a special place in our hearts.

One of the best ways to honor your companion and the memories you share with him is to give him a proper place to rest.

Some pet owners opt to use an urn to contain their pet’s ashes. However, a casket will let you say goodbye with a burial ceremony, which you and your family members may prefer.

We’ll help you pick out the ideal casket for your pet and share a few things to think about while making your choice below.

We’ve tried to make things easier on you during this difficult time by assembling a few of the best pet coffins on the market.

Each of the five discussed below have received excellent reviews for their durability, appearance, and sturdiness. Most come in various sizes, allowing you to find one that’s suitable for your dog.

About: The Pet Memory Shop Casket is a simple, high-quality casket available in two different colors — black and white — and three different sizes to accommodate every breed. It also comes with extra-strong adhesive tape and step-by-step instructions on how to seal the casket properly.

The casket itself is made from durable but lightweight high-impact plastic. It’s airtight, completely waterproof, and can withstand extreme conditions without bending or breaking.

Pet Memory Shop is considered to be one of the most trusted manufacturers of pet memorial products in the US, so you can rest assured that all products undergo stringent quality checks and adhere to strict safety measures.

* Comes in three different sizes; small (8 x 10 x 8 inches, up to 40 pounds), medium (24 x 12 x 8 inches, up to 65 pounds), and large (32 x 16 x 11 inches, up to 110 pounds)

* Two different color options (black or white)

* Made from durable, high-impact plastic that has undergone rigorous testing

* Comes with step-by-step instructions and adhesive tape

About: The Sweet Goodbye Cloud Casket is designed to give your pet an honorable, dignified farewell at an affordable price. The casket is made from soft, biodegradable wool and features a built-in pocket where you can add a handwritten note and your pup’s favorite toy or treat. It also comes with a burial kit, which includes a ceremony guide book, heart and flower garland, memorial marker, and a reusable bag to store precious keepsakes.

The casket measures 12 by 13 inches in its largest size, which is ideal for a small dog. There’s a range of color options available, including lavender, teal, and gray, and you can also personalize the outside of the casket with your best friend’s name.

* Made from biodegradable, natural wool and lined with cotton

About: Biodegradable pet caskets don’t just give our companions an honorable resting place; they allow them to become a part of the natural world around them. This can be a comforting idea for many pup owners, and if you feel the same way, the Parazoo Burial Box is worth considering. It’s made completely out of bamboo fiber, which is fully biodegradable.

The casket itself is simple but elegant, with a smooth texture and embossed paw print design at the top. The material is also easy to decorate with the likes of markers, paint, and stickers, which will allow you to add a personal touch and any final goodbye messages.

Despite its biodegradable materials, the casket is exceptionally durable. It features a thick shell that won’t warp, reinforced ribbing for additional support, and a secure buckle structure to keep things airtight. At 17.5 inches long and 12.5 inches wide, it’s suitable for small to medium-sized breeds.

About: The Pinnacle Handmade Dog Casket might be on the pricier end, but its solid oak design is absolutely stunning, and with two handles on either side, it will allow you to safely carry and transport your pup with the respect he deserves.

The casket comes in three different sizes. The largest option is suitable for medium to big breeds, while the smallest option can accommodate breeds under 18.5 inches tall, such as Chihuahuas and Shih Tzus. You can also contact the seller directly to get a custom size made for your dog.

At around 3 to 4 inches thick, the casket is robust and exceptionally durable, and its furniture-grade coating adds a beautiful glossy finish while protecting the wood’s surface from damage.

* Two handles on each side

About: Voted as “Best for Pet Memorial Services” by LUXlife magazine, this cocoon-style pet casket is eco-friendly, secure, and has everything you need to hold a ceremony that truly honors your companion. It’s made by the same manufacturer of the cloud clasket featured above. So, it too comes with the burial guide and all the additional ceremony gifts.

The main difference between the cocoon and the cloud casket is the actual design. The cocoon style is easier to transport and better suited to large dogs — the XL size is even suitable for Great Danes — while the cloud shape is exclusively for small breeds.

* Five different size options, with plenty of color choices

Losing your best friend is a devastating experience, and unfortunately, navigating the aftermath can feel impossible at times. One of the many heart-wrenching decisions you’ll need to make is how to deal with your best friend’s remains. Some owners opt for cremation, but others prefer the sense of closure a ceremonial burial can bring.

Note: If any of this starts to become too overwhelming, please take a breather and refer to our how to deal with pet loss article.

If you choose to bury your dog, you first need to properly research the relevant state and local laws. Some states do not allow deceased pets to be buried in backyards at all, while others have specific requirements, such as burying them at least 3 feet deep, or ensuring remains are far away from a water source.

Once you have researched the applicable laws, and have determined it’s legal to bury your dog, you’ll next need to choose a location, buy a size-appropriate casket, and consider how to say your final goodbye.

For some owners, a final goodbye means saying a few words and including their dog’s favorite toys within the casket. However, this is a very personal decision and you should say goodbye in whatever form you feel honors your best friend best.

We won’t cover the in-depth, step-by-step process here. But when you feel ready, please do check out our full article on dog burial. We’ll guide you through everything and also mention a few other factors you need to consider, such as the climate and any safety issues.

No, you do not have to bury your dog — and in many areas, you aren’t even allowed to. There are other options available though, with the most popular being pet cremation.

Cremation for dogs is typically more affordable, and you can choose to have the ashes kept in an urn or a keepsake. There are two ways a cremation takes place:

* Group: When pets are cremated together. This is a pretty budget-friendly option.

* Individual: When your dog is cremated alone. This is pricer than group cremation, but it ensures the ashes that get returned are just your pet’s.

If you still want to experience a burial, but do not want to tend to the remains yourself, you can also opt to have your pup buried at a pet cemetery. They will take care of everything for you, including digging the hole and maintaining the area. Keep in mind though that pet cemeteries can be expensive, and sometimes come with yearly maintenance fees.

Our dogs are a part of the family, and losing them is understandably heartbreaking and tough. But remember that you don’t have to deal with your grief alone.

Make sure to reach out to friends and relatives during this time, and get in touch with

a therapist that specializes in grief. We also have a few pet loss resources of our own, including comforting quotes and tips for dealing with dog loss.

Many owners also find that paying tribute to their pup through memorial stones or jewelry can help with the healing process.

You likely still have a few concerns about burying your dog, and whether it’s a suitable and safe option available. We’ll answer some of the most common questions below, so hopefully you will know if a burial is the right choice for your pup by the end of this section.

However, if the answers don’t meet your expectations, remember that there are other ways to honor your best friend, such as cremation.

A casket will allow you to bury your dog with the respect and dignity he deserves. As our list above shows, there is a wide range of caskets available on the market. Some can be easily personalized, while others are made from biodegradable materials to minimize the environmental impact.

It can be difficult to decide, but know that whatever you choose will honor your companion. Please feel free to share your personal experiences with grief, pet loss, and burial in the comments down below, or any other pet loss resources that have helped you through this difficult time.