Ashley Graham has released a bedroom thirst trap video where she went completely naked with her boobs and thick hips on display claiming to be created in the image of God. Her caption on Instagram read;

Ashley Graham has released a bedroom thirst trap video where she went completely naked with her boobs and thick hips on display claiming to be created in the image of God. Her caption on Instagram read;

Ashley Graham is, in a word, an icon. The 35-year-old model and mother of three seems to have done everything in her career: hosting TV shows, releasing books, walking runways, and starring in ad campaigns and on magazine covers.

And lately, her Instagram has been suitably iconic. Recently, she’s shared an unfiltered naked video from her bed as well as posted a totally naked picture to her 18.9 million followers the week before. Previously, she’s also shared some candid pictures of her pregnancy body on the platform in order to show a beautiful and real representation of what pregnancy looks like.

Her Instagram followers got another amazing surprise when she posted completely naked, unretouched photos of herself from a recent magazine shoot. The shoot in question is for celebrity stylist Katie Grand’s Perfect Magazine and was lensed by photographer Zhong Lin.

Ashley poses against a bold blue backdrop wearing nothing but a tousled bob and dramatic eyeliner, artistically reclining against the ground. She’s a supermodel so, duh, she looks stunning, and there’s an old Hollywood vibe (I’m getting some major Sophia Loren energy here) to the photos that make them look totally classic.

Interestingly, Ashley posted some choice images from the shoot alongside a screenshot of a text conversation between her and Grand in a carousel on her Instagram feed.

The screenshot relays a conversation where Grand had reached out to ask, “Hi Ashley, conceptually what do you think to no retouching on the pictures?”

In response, Ashley had replied, “I personally think it’s the best choice! The pictures look stunning and speak for themselves….”

The screenshot ends with Grand adding, “Yay! Me too!!”