Southwest Germany's unique hotel hideaways are breathtaking. Check out these tucked away vacation spots that are perfect for couples retreats as well as family vacations!

These getaway locations are little hiding places in rural idylls that offer traditional charm in the middle of nature. These six special international hideaways are located in the Black Forest, Lake Constance, Swabian Alb, Stuttgart, Upper Swabia and Hohenlohe regions and promise guests comfortable holiday experiences in the middle of the countryside.

The hideaways are the result of a bidding process that was launched in spring by Tourism Marketing Baden-Wuerttemberg with the six major tourism regions. In order to strengthen tourism in rural areas, accommodations were sought that are perfectly embedded in their rural surroundings, meet the modern demands of travelers and also set architecturally surprising accents.

Hiding place, refuge, shelter, this is what the term “hideaways” literally stands for. Secluded places where you can relax. Cozy holiday quarters in the middle of the wonderful nature that are sought after by people who like to hike, cycle and enjoy the landscape. Many of these "hideaways" are made of wood. They smell of the picturesque surroundings in which they are perfectly embedded. Inside, however, an astonishing level of comfort is revealed. This is artfully hidden in the shell of a small, fine holiday home.

Enjoy these simple and sophisticated quarters in nature:

The tree house hotel in the nature resort Tripsdrill near Stuttgart offers hotel comfort at a height of up to 15 feet in the air. A veranda is attached to each of the individually designed stilt houses, where guests can enjoy the evening hours in nature and, with a little luck, hear the wolves howling in the wildlife paradise from a safe distance and height! Underfloor heating ensures cozy living comfort. The tree houses can be booked daily in winter and Wi-Fi is available free of charge. When staying in the tree house, a rich breakfast and admission to the wildlife paradise are included on all days of the stay. Overnight guests receive tickets for the amusement park when they book at special rates.

The Gessler family offers pure country life on their organic farm in Markdorf on Lake Constance. The ecologically built "tiny houses" border directly on the chicken coop and orchard. While it is naturally cozy in the wooden houses, a wide meadow and forest landscape await outside. The igloo sauna, which guests can use themselves, offers maximum relaxation. The organic farm currently has a few hundred chickens, which provide delicious organic eggs and high-quality poultry meat every day, 20 acres of orchards and approximately 20 acres of forest, a small petting zoo and a farm garden full of fresh fruit and vegetables.

Between Stuttgart and Lake Constance is the Swabian Alb and this is where the charming chalet, Widmann's Albleben is home. Sauna, rain shower, cozy bathrobes and a bedroom with a view of the sky. What sounds like the pampering mixture of a wellness hotel is part of the inner workings of the chalets at Widmann’s Albleben. These rustic vacation rentals are located near Königsbronn on the Ostalb. They are as stylish as they are luxurious. The log houses guarantee the highest level of comfort.

Sometimes something old becomes something new with a lot of creativity. In the town of Gengenbach-Reichenbach in the Black Forest, guests at the Brennkuech Hideaway are greeted by the scent of wood, perhaps even a subtle aroma of spirits as Schnapps had been distilled there for decades. The Boschert family have turned a dilapidated farmhouse into a designer holiday home. Lovingly restored, equipped with their own woods, the house now offers stylish quarters complete with a wood-burning stove and a mountain panorama with magnificent views.

The Black Forest is a magnificent place to visit with rolling hills interspersed with deep forests. Plenty of well-sign posted trails make hiking and biking a pleasure through the countryside. Small towns with cafes and historic homes and churches offer a step back into time.

If you want to go on holiday, where more animals live than people, then the village of Granheim in Upper Swabia is the right place at the holiday farm of the Neher family. Three log houses invite you to the farm, where you can also look behind the scenes. The animal residents are happy to be petted. After some action on the playground or a long hike, you can relax on the veranda in the evening. Whether families, children, seniors, everyone will find their time with the Family Neher very relaxing. The farm has been maintained full-time for generations. It offers a comfortable home for cattle, cows, horses, cats, chickens, a rabbit and sheep. Visitors are welcome to look over the family's shoulders during their daily work! There are also plenty of leisure activities around the farm, including table football, ping pong and soccer.

A half-timbered house stands directly on the Brettach, a tributary of the Jagst. Guests enjoy the fireplace and sauna, and the tastefully designed rooms are dominated by wooden furniture, leather accessories and fur blankets. A private path along the idyllic stream leads to endless pastures and meadows. The region of Hohenlohe between Heidelberg and Stuttgart is close to the Castle Road and the charming town of Ladenburg. This is a perfect area for backpacking in an elegant and relaxed atmosphere. Visitors can find gems in the the castles, churches and picturesque towns along peaceful walks along fields and in the forests. With its quality products and focus on sustainable farming practices, Hohenlohe offers some of the best conditions for growing fruits, vegetables and livestock.

Photo: Countryside Idyll on the Brettach River by Stefan Kuhn

Note: 30Seconds is a participant in the Amazon affiliate   advertising program and this post contains affiliate links, which means   we may earn a commission or fees if you make a purchase via those   links.

Take 30 seconds and join the 30Seconds community, and follow us on Facebook to get inspiration in your newsfeed daily. Inspire and be inspired.

Related Products on Amazon We Think You May Like:

30Second Mobile, Inc. is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to Amazon.com and affiliated sites.