With over 23,000 cryptocurrencies to pick from, it can be difficult for many people to make a decision as to what cryptocurrencies they are genuinely interested in making investments in.

Out of all of the projects, a few have stood out throughout the week, and these include TMS Network (TMSN), Aptos (APT), and Lido DAO (LDO). Today, we will be comparing each of these cryptocurrencies to see how they compare and what cryptocurrency might be the best decision for specific investors and traders looking to diversify.

Aptos (APT) is a scalable, Layer-1 blockchain that is known for its implementation of the Move programming language. The native cryptocurrency is known as Aptos (APT), and it is used for the payment of transaction fees on top of the network, for participation in the validator staking procedure, and for governance.

The Aptos (APT) project features numerous components that work alongside one another, including the Move smart contract programming language, Parallel processing execution, and the AptosBFT consensus.

When we go over the value, Aptos (APT) was trading at $12.91 on April 14, 2023. In regards to its all-time high, the Aptos (APT) cryptocurrency reached $19.92 on January 26, 2023.

When we go over its 24-hour performance, Aptos (APT) increased in value by 10.1%. In the last seven days, Aptos (APT) increased by 13.1%. If it manages to keep up with this momentum, it could be headed toward a bullish run.

The Lido FInance staking solution provides services for Ethereum, Solana, Kusama, and others and allows users to stake with Lido and maintain control and liquidity over staked tokens.

The native cryptocurrency, Lido DAO (LDO), is used for governance, value accrual, and liquidity incentive.

Regarding the value of the Lido DAO (LDO) cryptocurrency, on April 14, 2023, it traded at $2.58. Surrounding its overall historical performance, its all-time high was reached on August 20, 2021. Here, Lido DAO (LDO) reached $7.30.

Within the last 24 hours, Lido DAO (LDO) increased by 8.9% in value, and in the last 14 days, its value increase was at 12.2%. But Lido DAO (LDO) isn’t the only cryptocurrency to grab investor attention. Alongside Lido DAO (LDO), investors have also been eyeing the TMS Network (TMSN) cryptocurrency.

TMS Network (TMSN) is a blockchain-based platform that enables users the opportunity to invest in derivatives through cryptocurrency payments instantly. It is a decentralized trading platform in which anyone can begin trading, all by connecting a cryptocurrency wallet. This means that users are not required to create a separate account to use TMS Network (TMSN) and can do so by simply connecting their wallets.

There are social trading features available on top of TMS Network (TMSN), alongside support for MT4 and MT5, among other features.

The native cryptocurrency, ​​TMS Network (TMSN), is used for governance, accessing advanced trading features, and getting a commission based on the overall trading volume of the platform.

At its current Stage 3 presale the TMS Network (TMSN) token is offered at a value of $0.078. Experts analysts across the Web3 space predict that its value can climb to $2 by the end of 2023.

As such, any investor or trader aiming to get into TMS Network (TMSN) can do so before it explodes in value by signing up at the presale links below.