The Lexus LC has been around for a while now after debuting for the 2018 model year, and yet, it still amazingly looks pretty fresh. We can credit that to the luxury brand’s stellar design, which has held up amazingly well over the years, keeping the LC relevant and turning heads even today. However, it does seem as if some changes are on the way for the 2024 model year, highlighted the by introduction of a brand new variant – the Lexus LC Ultimate Edition, as Kirk Kreifels discusses in the video below.

Interestingly, news of the existence of the Lexus LC Ultimate Edition – along with various other updates for the 2024 model year – comes from the luxury brand’s European division, though it seems as if these changes will also likely make their way to North America as well. However, the Ultimate Edition is the big news here, introducing some unique touches to the coupe and convertible variants that include an exterior hue dubbed Hakugin White, a color inspired by Japanese porcelain.

That hue is accented by a host of black trim pieces including the front grille and surround, headlamp surrounds, washer covers, front lip, side mirrors, taillight covers, brackets, rear diffuser, and exhaust baffles. The front bumper is fitted with canards to enhance airflow, while coupe models come equipped with a black carbon rear wing. Inside the cabin, the Lexus LC Ultimate Edition features Kachi-Blue inspired by the threads used for samurai armor, a serialized number plate, Limited Edition door sills, and Alcantara accents.

Even more interestingly, the LC Ultimate Edition’s 5.0-liter V8 and differential have been treated to what Lexus calls a “Takumi tune” for “for smoother rotation feel, high-quality sound, and enhanced acceleration response,” though it hasn’t yet provided any additional specifics as to whether or not that translates to additional output or better performance.

In addition to this new limited-edition model, the 2024 LC also gets a larger 12.3-inch infotainment screen with voice recognition and wireless Apple CarPlay and Android Auto compatibility, replacing the old 10-inch unit and touchpad, making room for a new switch layout. The 13-speaker Mark Levison Surround Sound System is standard equipment, while two new interior color schemes join a handful of materials changes – blue and white, along with DK Rose.

Customers get a pair of new exterior colors to choose from in Heat Blue and Sonic Copper, along with a standard Panoramic View Monitor camera and one of three wheel choices – 20-inch units finished in super gloss black metallic, 21-inch wheels with a 3D machined finish, and 21-inch rollers with a two-tone black and hyper-chrome finish. Finally, a series of suspension, transmission, and braking enhancements – along with an Expert mode that allows traction control to be turned off – reportedly makes the 2024 LC more responsive and fun to drive as well.

As far as timing goes, the 2024 Lexus LC is set to enter production in May, while the Ultimate Edition will follow in September. For now, there’s no word on whether or not these enhancements make their way to the U. S., but it certainly seems likely.

Brett Foote has been covering the automotive industry for over five years and is a longtime contributor to Internet Brands’ Auto Group sites, including Chevrolet Forum, Rennlist, and Ford Truck Enthusiasts, among other popular sites.

He has been an automotive enthusiast since the day he came into this world and rode home from the hospital in a first-gen Mustang, and he's been wrenching on them nearly as long.

In addition to his expertise writing about cars, trucks, motorcycles, and every other type of automobile, Brett had spent several years running parts for local auto dealerships.

You can follow along with his builds and various automotive shenanigans on Instagram: @bfoote.