When President Obama informed Britain we would go to “the back of the queue” for a trade agreement with the US if we voted for Brexit, he massively boosted support for the Leave campaign. We don’t much like American presidents shoving their oars into our waters.To use language he might grasp, Prez Joe should butt out.

Leftie apologists for the appalling new attacks on Prime Minister Rishi Sunak, calling him a friend of paedophiles, are suggesting the adverts are “daft” rather than the morally repellent well-poisoning that most of us know them to be. However, the Tories must be sniggering into their soup, because they of all people will know quite how badly this sort of thing can blow up in their faces.Remember the “demon eyes” campaign directed at Tony Blair when it became obvious that he was going to win?The voters were so disgusted with the Tories that they gave Blair a landslide election win. My bet is that Rishi will be in No.10 for quite a long time yet.

Money-to-burn plan is all smoke and mirrorsJust over 23 years ago, I took one of the best decisions of my life: I gave up smoking. It was torture. It was my third time trying and now that I knew how difficult it was going to be, I planned out a veritable campaign.I had a laser treatment that was supposed to stimulate endorphin levels, as cigarettes do, and I put money in a jar every day that was equivalent to the cost of a packet of cigarettes.I promised myself at the end of the first smoke-free month I could have a pair of designer shoes and at the end of the second, a dress (thus becoming the first person in history to end up spending more after giving up smoking, but that’s another story).I carried a little book by anti-smoking guru Allen Carr to consult at times of stress and I rang my long-suffering ex-smoker father almost every night for support.It took a good three years before I felt normal again, but I got through it and now cannot understand why I took it up in the first place. Nasty, dirty things, are cigarettes, and to top it all, my father’s brother had died of lung cancer. What was I thinking when I had my first fag?But despite all this, I can’t help but feel dismayed at the news that pregnant women are to be offered £400 to help them give up in a new anti-smoking drive.

How will this be monitored? What happens if they take up fags again after the birth? By all means fund clinics to help people give up, but paying people to change their behaviour?Isn’t this rather beyond the remit of the state? And where is it going to end? Are we going to pay mothers-to-be who like a tipple to give up the hard stuff? And anyone over a size 16 to lose weight?There are all sorts of other measures suggested in the proposals, including offering a free vaping kit. But there are also health fears over vaping. Just where will this end? Campaigners say the proposals do not go far enough, but smoking’s changed beyond all recognition in the course of my lifetime: when I was younger almost everyone seemed to do it; now the vast majority do not.In fact, the approach by several governments has been very successful: ban it in public and tax it to the hilt.In 2021 the proportion of UK smokers was 13.3 percent; in 1962 more than 70 percent of British men smoked and more than 40 per cent of women.Incidentally, if you pay people to give up, some will take it up just to be able to quit in the future. The law of unintended consequences can have a nasty bite.

Audience members at a performance of The Bodyguard in the Palace Theatre, Manchester, disgraced themselves when they forced one performance to stop early because of the racket they were making when singing along. Were they born in a barn?Mind you, I Will Always Love You is one of the most cloying numbers ever written. Perhaps they were actually showing some musical taste.

The number of tigers in India has more than doubled over the last 50 years: brilliant, fantastic news. I once asked a big cheese at the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds what would be the best way of protecting wildlife: “Get rid of all humans,” he said.When you look at some areas of the world today, a part of me feels he had a point.

The Queen told Prince William off for riding in a helicopter with his entire family: quite right too. One nasty accident and it would be Harry on the throne. But I do hope the same caution applies to cars: flying is the safest form of travel.Post 9/11 the number of deaths in car crashes in the US shot up because people (understandably) didn’t want to fly and took to their motors.How very complicated life is these days.

There is a long and noble tradition in this country of former enfants terribles turning into national treasures (Tony Benn, Tracey Emin et al) and we have a newcomer to the list: John Lydon. The selflessness the ex-Sex Pistol displayed in caring for his wife Nora, who died a few days ago following a brutal battle with Alzheimer’s, was breathtaking.You wouldn’t have said this during his heyday in the late 1970s, but a better role model for young men would be very hard to find.