Avocado is known to be one of the most popular superfoods. This ingredient is widely associated with fitness goals and healthy eating. Avocados can be consumed in a variety of ways - they can be used to make spreads, salads, soups and much more. However, a recent video shared on Twitter shows an avocado dish that you may not have seen before. It is not unusual to combine avocados and eggs in a meal, but this method is certainly unique. The person who posted the video captioned it, "Cadbury Avocado Nightmare" - mostly because, in a way, it reminded them of Cadbury eggs (an egg-shaped chocolate treat with a fondant filling).

Also Watch: Soup Cooked For 50 Years? This Bangkok Restaurant's Video Is Going Viral

Twitter user @ericriveracooks shared a screen recording of a video originally posted by @easycookingbaking071. In it, we see a woman holding up two halves of an avocado. The seed has been removed and she goes on to place a boiled egg in the hollow space. She then puts the two halves together and rolls the stuffed avocado in flour. She covers it with an egg wash, followed by a breadcrumb coating. She then deep-fries the avocado until it turns golden brown on the outside. After garnishing it with parsley and paprika, she cuts it open to reveal a runny yolk. She finally seasons the dish with some salt and pepper. Wondering whether she liked it? Watch the full video here:

Also Read: "Insanely" High Price Of Foods And Drinks Served At Coachella Festival Shocks Internet

The Twitter post has received 60.8K views so far. In the comments, some people wondered why the woman chose to make such a dish. A few expressed interest in trying it while others were far from convinced. Read some of their reactions below. It is a nightmare but I can't look away.— Katie Lange #GetYourVaccine (@KathleenJLange) April 14, 2023Like a vegetarian scotch egg? Hotvocado? Just… ok. Whatever. I'll pass.— Katie Porter's White Board (@OhDangitEvie) April 12, 2023This is the first one of these videos where I actually want to try what was cooked. 😋— ALEX BLAND (@alexbland) April 12, 2023Get me one of them Egg-vocados— RichNPenniless (@spinsky128) April 12, 2023That's right. Instead of preparing these exact ingredients in a simpler and healtier way, I'm going to heat up an entire pot of oil and dirty a bunch of dishes to deep fry ONE breaded avocado egg.

Now where did I put my salt spoon?— Maier Supreme (@Mrs_Maier) April 13, 2023They clearly accomplished what they wanted to. But… at what cost?— Kate Cosm (@Katia_Cosm) April 12, 2023Oh wow! I've never before craved hot unripe deep-fried avocado before…🤯— M (@MouthAlmighty) April 13, 2023An insult to eggs and avocados everywhere— Sammy 🌊💙💙🌊 (@Sammy81321) April 12, 2023

Also Read: Viral Video: Man Uses Scorching Sun To Cook Egg In Bengal

What did you think of this avocado dish? Let us know in the comments below.