PARIS, April 19 — Rather than signaling that they’re married, a ring could be a means for singles to identify each other. This is the idea behind the “Pear Ring,” a ring worn by single people who are open to dating. And inevitably, the concept has not gone unnoticed on social networks.

Is this the end of dating apps? It doesn’t seem so yet, but one real-world object is seeking to draw people away from the world of online dating. That object is a simple ring, with a plain design and no fancy embellishments, in a green-to-turquoise shade.

Its name is the “Pear Ring.” And by wearing it on one of your fingers, you can tell the world that you are single and open to dating.

“If 1.2 billion singles around the world wore a little green ring on their finger to show they’re single, we wouldn’t need dating apps. IRL connection is the mission,” explains the website of Pear, the brand behind the ring.

And according to the company, the “Pear Ring” is proving a real success. The first batch is all sold out, and the second has already sold 93 per cent of its stock.

Online, the ring is billed as “the world’s biggest social experiment,” and “the in real life social experiment taking the world by storm.”

Behind this marketing, Pear is tapping into a genuine effect: dating app fatigue and the desire to bring dating back into the real world.

According to a study conducted by YouGov and the dating app Once, reported by L’ADN, 83 per cent of French users of dating applications say they are dissatisfied because of the disappointing behaviour of other users, the aggressiveness of interactions and the feeling of wasting time.

In a separate 2020 study, 57 per cent of Millennials feel that online dating rarely leads to a serious relationship. In the UK, three out of four singles would like to meet their partner in real life, according to figures from The Inner Circle app.

And that’s where the “Pear Ring” comes in. In addition to being an icebreaker and an easy conversation starter (without the fear of hitting on someone already in a relationship), this US$20 ring comes with a “unique membership number” that gives the owner access to PearFest, the “world’s first singles festival,” according to Pear.

These real-life events are currently reserved for a handful English-speaking countries — the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and Australia — but other countries should soon join the list.

On social networks, opinions are mixed about the idea of this ring. “I think this is great, it engages people on a personal level instead of trying to communicate through a screen,” said one Twitter user.

“If this empowers women to shoot their shot, I’m all for it ...The real problem is men don’t know how to respectfully approach women anymore or even take a signal of interest,” explains another. Others, on the contrary, make fun of the ring, notably using pictures of the Green Lantern heroes, also known for wearing a green ring.

For most people, this ring is not only absurd, but also far from being revolutionary. One internet user reacting to hearing about the “Pear Ring” said: “Multiple grocery stores in Norway implemented a special cart for those who are single, which kinda worked in a way. Genius & simple way to indicate to others that you are open to being approached.”

And this is not the only place that has used this kind of system. Many discotheques, often for Valentine’s Day events, for example, offer coloured bracelets to identify single people open to dating, as well as people already in couples or not looking for love. — ETX Studio