Watching a baseball game on TV can provide astounding moments. Sensational fielding, clutch hitting, pinpoint pitching. But nothing was more astounding to me than a promotion they used to run on Blue Jays telecasts way back when.

Viewers were invited to text their votes for player-of-the-game and the people’s choice would win a watch. Voters were told that each text would cost fifty cents. Who in their right mind, I wondered, would pay even fifty cents so a millionaire ballplayer could win a watch?

Turns out there’s something about professional sport that makes level-headed people do dumb things. Especially, it seems, people in government.

You will no doubt recall that government paid most of the $570 million to build what was called the SkyDome. They soon sold it to private enterprise for $25 million.

Now, we learn, the City of Toronto is so pleased to be hosting some World Cup soccer games in 2026, that it has agreed to partner with MLSE, the giant sports and entertainment conglomerate that owns the Leafs, Raptors, Toronto FC, the Argonauts, a few minor league teams, and the venues where they play, to organize those games. If you think “partner” means the city and MLSE are in this together, you’d be wrong, at least when it comes to money.

Toronto is paying for everything, expected to be at least $300 million. MLSE gets a cut of the profits, no part of the risk. It’s a real head-shaker.

But everything associated with hosting the World Cup makes no financial sense. Though the event is the most lucrative sporting bonanza of all-time, if Toronto sees any profit, it will be peanuts.

FIFA, the international soccer federation that runs the World Cup, and perhaps one of the most corrupt sporting organizations that’s ever existed, is not into sharing. It keeps almost every penny of the TV rights, marketing rights, even ticket sales. In 2026, that’s expected to add up to more than $14 billion US. Its profit should be about $11 billion US. If Toronto was going to get a real piece of that, I’d lead the parade for the World Cup.

Study after study has shown that hosting a major international sporting event like the World Cup or the Olympics is a losing proposition. But time after time, governments persuade themselves that they can do it better than anyone has ever done it before. They draw up spreadsheets, fiddle with numbers that have too many zeroes to count, and voilà, they’re going to be rolling in green.

None of us can see the future, but here’s something you can take to the bank. As a taxpayer, the World Cup will make you a loser. Instead of using your money for parks, libraries, or filling potholes, it’s being used to make rich people and rich companies even richer. Toronto’s contract with MLSE is just another version of the old Blue Jay watch razzle-dazzle.