Get all the essential market news and expert opinions in one place with our daily newsletter. Receive a comprehensive recap of the day's top stories directly to your inbox. Sign up here!

(Kitco News) - Anglo American today  announced the decision by the Chilean Committee of Ministers to approve the  environmental permit application for the Los Bronces Integrated Project  ("LBIP"), setting up the next phase of development for one of the world's  largest copper mines.

Los Bronces is an open-pit copper and moly mine. The mineral that is extracted  is ground and transported by a 56-kilometer pipeline to the Las Tórtolas  flotation plant, where copper and molybdenum contained in concentrates are  produced. Furthermore, the mine copper cathodes occurs.

The company said that LBIP is  a multi-billion dollar project to develop the next phase of the existing open  pit within Los Bronces' operating site and replace future lower grade ore by  accessing higher grade ore from a new underground section of the mine.

Importantly, according to a  press release, the project uses the mine's existing processing facilities,  optimizes water efficiency, has no impact on glaciers and requires no  additional fresh water or tailings facilities.

Ruben Fernandes, CEO of Anglo American's Base  Metals business, commented, "We welcome the decision from the Committee of  Ministers in support of our ongoing investment in Los Bronces – securing the  long term future of one of the world's largest copper mines.

"We have designed the Los  Bronces Integrated Project as an example of the very best of modern mining,  bringing not only investment and jobs, but extensive protection for the  environment and a considerable improvement in air quality for the broader  region of Santiago."

Following the receipt of the  environmental permit, Anglo American said it will continue to progress the  project through its pre-feasibility stages towards submission for approval by  the Anglo American Board in due course.

Anglo American is a leading  global mining company. The company produces diamonds (through De Beers),  copper, platinum group metals, premium quality iron ore and steelmaking coal,  and nickel – with crop nutrients in development. The company is committed to  being carbon neutral across its operations by 2040.