AceShowbiz -

Chrissy Teigen has defended the way her husband John Legend carried their daughter. The "Chrissy's Court" star insisted that her daughter was "safe" after receiving criticism from her followers on the way her husband used a baby wrap.

After the 37-year-old posted a series of photos from her family vacation in Venice, Italy on Saturday, April 8, one of her followers jumped into the comment section to criticize her and her husband by writing, "Can u please give them some advices?" and tagging an Instagram user who seemingly could explain "how to wear the carrier right."

In response to the comment, Chrissy replied, " 'right' is how she is comfortable." She further stated that Esti was "safe and happy." She additionally explained that her baby daughter does not like being held "high and tight" and that she likes to be able "to look around and see her daddy."

Jeremy Renner Addresses Acting Career on His First Red Carpet After Snowplow Accident

Tom Sandoval Details Raquel Leviss Affair, Says He Still Loves Ex Ariana Madix

Amanda Bynes Discharged From Mental Hospital 3 Weeks After Found Naked on Street

Iggy Azalea Compiles Her Uncensored Steamy Selfies for Coffee Table Book 'Hotter Than Hell'

The comment was not the only criticism the TV personality received in her post. Her other followers seemed to think that the way her husband carried her baby was not safe. One in particular cautioned, "It's not safe. Her position, her neck. The device was made to be used that way so if it comes off, that's on him." A second follower simply wrote, "It's safety, not preference." Meanwhile, a third follower penned, "Lol John is wearing esti so low!!! dudes. Anyway have fun you crazy kids (with kids)."

Aside from the criticism, the model's comment section was also flooded with supportive comments. One in particular wrote, "Momma and daddy know best what THEIR kids like [red heart emojis]." A second follower gushed, "Could y'all look any more perfect." Similarly, a third follower praised, "Beautiful family! Kids are adorable."

Chrissy's explanation on her daughter's safety came quickly after she shared a slew of photos of her family's vacation in Venice. Along with the photos, she shared her memory of her previos trip to the city, "Venezia! John and I first came here in 2007 when we were just a couple of crazy child-free kids!"

"It's was the dead of winter, absolutely freezing cold and john fondly remembers my single faux urban outfitters fur hat that adorned me every day and night. We took the water bus everywhere and ran through the alleys, making out like a couple of doofuses in lurve who never would have thought we'd be back with babies of our own! well john probably knew," she continued in the caption.