The Daviess County Sheriff’s Office has partnered with the City of Whitesville to open a field substation, and they’re celebrating with a grand opening this weekend.

Sheriff Brad Youngman and Whitesville Mayor Patsy Mayfield welcome the public to join them for an open house and refreshments at City Hall from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. this Saturday.

During Youngman’s campaign, he told Mayfield he wanted to increase the Sheriff’s Office’s presence in Whitesville. She had open ears and welcomed the office with open arms once the election was over.

“He told me if he was elected Sheriff, he was going to put Whitesville back on the map,” Mayfield said. “On the night of the election, he asked me if I remembered what he said because he hadn’t forgotten.”

Mayfield found room for the substation at City Hall, and the rest came together easily.

“We are very excited to have a substation out here for DCSO. They’re already doing a great job, and they’re not even out here yet,” she said. “We know this is a good thing for Whitesville, and the entire community will feel much safer.”

Youngman said they’re establishing the substation to accomplish two initial goals: increasing the presence of law enforcement in Whitesville and east Daviess County, and offering an additional place for officers complete paperwork, conduct interviews, and more without having to come to the courthouse.

“We’re ready to open the office up and hit the ground running,” Youngman said. “It will be a great place for deputies to use as an office and offer a place for Whitesville citizens and county residents to meet with a deputy or me to address their needs and concerns.”

Whitesville marks the only other incorporated city in Daviess County outside of Owensboro. Youngman said during his campaign, he often heard from constituents in the area that they desired an increase in law enforcement.

“During the election, a common theme was the lack of law enforcement services in the area,” he said. “I met with Mayor Mayfield to discuss this issue quite a bit. She’s been very supportive and adamant about making this a reality.”

Initially, the substation will operate by appointment only, but Youngman is open to expanding the office’s services if needed.