The new chapter that everyone is rooting for is Komi Can’t Communicate Chapter 400. And being the milestone outing that it is, fans are much excited to see what is to happen next. The title and bit of the plot have been released in the public domain. Here, fans shall take a look at what Komi and Tadano are planning for all this time. The news is that there is no break in the release of the new one. Thus, here is all you need to know about the new one!

In the new one, fans will be able to catch up with an interesting date. This will be between Tadano and Komi. The two have not been in the limelight for a longest time. It will be interesting to see what the next course of events are going to be!

The title of the last chapter was mentioned in the last panel of the previous chapter. From that, we know that the title is “Meanwhile, Komi-San.” This chapter will show the stance of Komi and Tadano while everything else was taking place. The last two chapters have essentially been fillers. However, this is the time that the main characters are to come back once again. We see that Komi and Tadano have not shared a good time with one another in a long while.

Thus, the two are to plan an interesting date. This one will take some time to get a final word. The conclusion to Wakai’s storyline will also come out in the new one. All in all, Komi Can’t Communicate Chapter 400 shall be one of the most interesting takes on how love stories are brewing here at high school!

The title of Komi Can’t Communicate Chapter 399 was “3rd Year Summer Festival Part 2.” Wakai-Kun sat next to Shosuke only to ask him a bunch of questions about his well-being and things at school. Later on, the conversation strikes about Tadano. Wakai wanted to know more about what the boy was doing on his own. In addition, we see that the weather was getting cooler. Wakai mentions that it was such a nice day for them to hang around like this.

In the second half, the conversation about Tadano began again. Shosuke wanted to know if she was interested in Tadano and not Shoko. In the final scene, we see that Shosuke was getting vulnerable with her. He shared that he wanted to walk around with his mother just in the way he used to in his childhood. And Wakai honored his thoughts on this at last.

Right now, no such break has been announced in the release of the new one. Thus, the new one is to come out in the next two days. So, the final release date of the new chapter, Komi Can’t Communicate Chapter 400, is April 19, 2023. All the chapters of the manga will be found only on the official pages of Kodansha. We will be sure to update this section as soon as there is any more details on this. Thus, keep an eye on The Anime Daily to get all the updates right here.