My Eggless Pasta Dough recipe is so tender and light, you would never know it is eggless, vegan and also dairy free! The key is Silken tofu, which replaces the protein and oil that mimic the function of the egg. Now you can make and use this dough any way you would use any fresh pasta dough. And, you don’t need a pasta roller! Just hand roll it and make manicotti, ravioli, tortellini or cut into long pasta noodles. Seriously easy.

This just might be the perfect pasta if you or someone in your household has an egg allergy or you’ve chosen to live a vegan/plant-based lifestyle. Once it is formed and kneaded, it acts just the same as regular pasta dough. I’m going to go out on limb here and say I actually like this better than traditional egg dough. The tofu makes it so soft and it just melts in your mouth. You’ll see!

As mentioned above, what gives this dough it’s light, smooth texture is silken tofu. But not regular tofu – it must be silken tofu. Well, what’s the difference you’re asking?

Silken tofu is smoother and creamier, like the consistency of jello (jelly in the U. K), firm is firmer and is a lot more crumbly, like feta cheese but will hold up to being cut into cubes. You can see the texture difference below, the left is silken and the right is firm.

This is why silken tofu works best for this recipe because it blends up smooth (you’ll see this in my video). For reference, ¼ cup (59 grams) of silken tofu equals 1 large egg.

There are 2 ways to make this dough: the first way is in a food processor (as seen in the attached video). With this method, all the ingredients are put into the food processor and blended.

The second way to make this dough is by hand: The tofu must first be blended (using your blender or Nutribullet) because this is the egg replacement and it must be in a somewhat liquid form.

No matter which method you choose, I have included both instructions for both in the recipe below.

I recently made a vegan manicotti for a friend (picture below). The filling is firm tofu mixed (instead of ricotta) with spinach, tahini, lemon, nutmeg and nutritional yeast for savory flavor in place of Parmesan cheese. The sauce on the top of the finished dish is a cashew cream sauce.

The dough will keep well wrapped in the refrigerator for 3 days or in the freezer for 2 months.

Well, it depends on what you use it for. It makes 30 ravioli ( I used it for my Lemon Ricotta Ravioli) and approximately 6 to 8 servings if cut into noodles.

The same as any other fresh pasta dough. When it floats, it’s ready, usually in a few minutes.

Turmeric is added to give the dough the color of egg pasta (from the egg yolk), without it will be quite pale. If you don’t mind the color you can omit the turmeric.