Sharon shared her painting 'A Fine Way To Say Goodbye' and relayed how it related to James leaving the CBS talk show

Sharon shared her painting 'A Fine Way To Say Goodbye' and relayed how it related to James leaving the CBS talk show

Sharon Stone gave a gushing goodbye to James Corden on Tuesday's episode of The Late Late Show before his departure next week from the CBS talk show.

The 65-year-old actress brought the glamour in a bright red one-shoulder ruffled dress to one of the last tapings of The Late Late Show with Corden, 44, as host.

James asked Sharon about recently having her first solo gallery showing of her paintings.

Sharon said it was 'pretty terrifying' and described how she overcame her fear to attend the gallery show that was packed with people who waited in the rain.

James then shared a painting by Sharon that he thought was 'amazing' and 'beautiful' and asked her to tell everyone about it.

'It is upside down,' Sharon cracked.

James then flipped it over and Sharon revealed that it was titled 'A Fine Way To Say Goodbye'.

'That is a great name,' James said.

Sharon explained that the six-by-eight feet painting was inspired by a famous actor and artist who sold his house to a friend of hers.

'And he did so many artistic and so many beautiful things in this house. He left sculptures, in the garden and fountains and just the house was just so personal and left so much gorgeous parts of himself behind in the house. And I painted the painting ...about the person, because I thought it was such a fine way to say goodbye,' Sharon said.

'And I brought it to the show tonight, because you have that essence, James. And I walked down the hall and I saw the pictures of you at Penny Lane with Paul McCartney, and the pictures of you in the car with Mrs. Obama, and pictures of you with all of the stars. And you in sailor suits dancing in Times Square and doing all of the amazing things you have done, and all of the "Carpool Karaokes" that have given us so much joy. On the Internet, even when we are not with you at night. And all of the you that you gave to us in this country, and abroad. And when you go home, back to your home, I want you to know what a fine way to say goodbye,' Sharon said.

James and Sharon then shared a long hug and held hands as the show went to commercial break.

Sharon on the talk show also shared her deep desire to do stand-up comedy.

She said that her favorite comedian was Dave Chappelle, 49, and revealed that she has reached out asking him for help with a stand-up act.

English singer Harry Styles, 29, and comedian Will Ferrell, 55, will join James for his final episode on April 27.

James took over hosting the show in 2015.