The Hamptons is a favorite summer playground for its gorgeous beaches, stunning sunsets, quaint shopping villages, farm-to-table restaurants, and chic wineries.  As wine experts will tell you, the ocean breeze, close proximity to water, mineral-rich soil, temperature, and duration of the growing season make Hampton’s grown wines some of the finest in the world. The climate is similar to wine regions in Italy and the area has a long history of being fertile farmland, so it’s no surprise that several of the wines coming from the Hamptons have been named some of the best in the world. While the Hamptons has become known for its trendy shoreline, this summer escape is also home to several notable wineries offering stays, live music, and wine tastings. There are now more than 60 vineyards that dot the Hamptons and across the North Fork, with varieties to please any palette.

Summer in a Bottle Rosé pretty much sums up the Hamptons vibe and happens to be the signature vino at the charming Wölffer Estate Vineyard. An American winery with a distinctly European character, the 55-acre vineyard (formerly potato fields) just off the Montauk Highway in Sagaponack was founded by German winemaker Christian Wölffer in 1998 and now produces over 50000 cases of wine and cider each year. Head to the main house, a charming Tuscan style estate with an outdoor terrace to enjoy tastings amid the vineyards (you’ll swear you are under the Tuscan sun).  Or take a seat on the manicured lawn and indulge at the outdoor wine bar. Aficionados can shop their blends here.

Located at a similar latitude as famed winemaking regions in France and Napa Valley, Osprey’s Dominion Vineyards in Peconic Bay also has a reputation for producing some of the best wines in the region.  The country-esque estate produces over 20 varietals wines which are best enjoyed on the picnic grounds or outdoor patios. At the heart of Osprey’s Dominion philosophy is a commitment to producing wines without human intervention so their reserves are only bottled wines in the years when mother nature is behaving perfectly. Stock your cellar here.

Home to a romantic Tuscan-style bed and breakfast overlooking the vineyards, Sannino Vineyard offers a boutique winery experience. The family-owned vineyard set on five acres in Cutchogue on Long Island’s north fork is committed to sustainable growing practices. Sample their wines in the tasting house or on the covered patio, and do book an immersive tour of the vineyards and winemaking facilities. Get your organic vino fix here.

If you love a little French fizz, Sparkling Pointe Vineyards & Winery in Southold exclusively produces classic Champagne grape varietals; Pinot Noir, Pinot Meunier, and Chardonnay.  The Sparkling Pointe wines grown Méthode Champenoise, are planted on three different vineyards on the 40-acre family-owned estate.  Head to the tasting house, VIP bubble lounge (the name says it all) or the outside terrace to add some sparkle to your day and learn the steps of French-style sparkling wine production. Order the perfect bottle of pop here.

Experience a taste of Italian vino, culture, and architecture at Raphael Winery in Peconic. The Mediterranean-influenced design draws inspiration from the Italian monasteries of owner/winemaker John Petrocelli’s ancestral home. Named to honor his father and family’s long winemaking legacy, Raphael is one of the few remaining wineries in the US to harvest entirely by hand. The winery is built 12 feet underground in line with the winemaking philosophy of understanding and working with the cycles of nature, climate and soil to produce ripe, fruit-driven new-world wines in an old-world setting.  During the spring, visit the winery for tastings and live music.