The economic crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic pushed millions of people into unemployment and poverty. However, Odisha’s Meetanjali Bisoyi, a tailor-cum-businesswoman who turned the pandemic in her favour and is now earning lakhs with her hard work and determination.

This apart, she has also created job opportunities for other women in her locality. From being unemployed and not able to pay the house rent during the pandemic to earning lakhs, the life journey of Meetanjali is an inspiration for many.

Hailing from Bori of Bhanjanagar in Ganjam district, Meetanjali’s family income was severely hit after her husband’s health condition deteriorated due to Covid-19. Seeing her husband’s ill condition, Meetanjali decided to take over the family’s responsibility on her own shoulders.

So, she started stitching masks during the pandemic. Soon, her masks were in high demand and started selling like hotcakes. So, she decided to expand her mask business and started keeping more machines and also engaged other women in the locality.

Now, the tiny tailor shop has turned into a huge business establishment with over a dozen sewing machines and several women getting employment opportunities. Apart from masks, Meetanjali has also now started taking contracts for stitching school uniforms, jackets, ties and other articles for students in the area.

She gets a bulk of stitching orders every day and also runs a cloth store and serves her customers with various types of new clothes. Moreover, to help other underprivileged women and young girls, Meetanjali has also started a free stitching course for women in the area.

“My husband’s health deteriorated during the coronavirus. So, he could not go to work and all our income source was hit. The situation was terrible as he could not even speak and walk. I could pay my house rent and did not have money to buy food and other daily essentials. So, I decided to start tailoring with whatever my husband had taught me.”

“I started stitching masks and there has been no turning back since then. My business is now going great. I save enough after giving salary to my staff,” Meetanjali added.