Nandish Sandhu has opened up about his journey from television to films and now to web series and shows on OTT platforms. Sandhu is a well-known name in the entertainment industry, having appeared in popular television shows like Uttaran and films like Super 30. In an exclusive chat with Bollywood Hungama, Sandhu shared thoughts on challenges of working on a multi-starrer project like Jubilee, impact of OTT and more.

EXCLUSIVE: Jubilee star Nandish Sandhu talks about Vikramaditya Motwane directorial, impact of OTT and handling negative criticism

While speaking on the challenges of working on a multi-starrer project, Nandish asserted, “While working on a multi-starrer project, I feel the challenges are only when the focus is more on individual performances and individual individuals as such as to what is happening. I've heard of stories where there is jealousy on the set. And the focus is on the other person, how much screen time he or she has, what am I doing and what kind of vanity vans are there. Then there is a problem when all that kicks in.”

He continued explaining, “But apart from that, when when you're working with good teams, good directors whose focus is only on the story, nothing else, you're doing your part, and you're just following the director, you surrender to the director because he knows the entire vision of the story, then all these thoughts don't come into your head at all. Everybody's working towards a common goal, which is just the story, storytelling, and you're a part of that story. Now, everybody cannot be equal. Yes, but it also makes it important to what kind of impact you have on the story.”

As the conversation progressed further, he spoke about the impact of OTT. He stated, “A lot of actors are getting opportunities to work because the OTT has come in. Earlier, the opportunities were limited as compared to the number of people who wanted to get into the film industry, and the number of people who come to Mumbai to get into the film industry, especially as actors. Now, the opportunities are immense. And it's a good thing because new talent is coming up.”

Sandhu went on to say, “People who would find it difficult to break into the industry with films now have another medium where they can showcase their talent and that is OTT. For every actor, it's a beautiful time and we should capitalise on this now because this is the time when every department whether it's direction, writers or creatives or actors, it's a beautiful time for everybody and we should make the most out of it.”

Later, the Super 30 actor also talked about receiving negative criticism and how he handles it. He said, “I learned long back. Thankfully, I learned very early in my career that all the negativity or negative reviews or criticism or you call it feedback is going to keep coming your way. You need to take it as a learning experience. I've always taken it as a learning experience. We are working for the audience. If we keep getting positive feedback from the audience, how are we going to grow? How will we know where we're going wrong?”

He concluded by saying, “So it is important to get negative feedback from the audience as well. Because that is like an opportunity to grow and learn. In fact, it is good to stay away from people who only say good things about you. Those are the most dangerous people. I always rely and trust those people who would say what they feel about you and your work, not people who only say good things. So I think that's the way I handle it.”

Also Read: EXCLUSIVE: Jubilee actor Nandish Sandhu calls his experience in TV “a highly paid learning playground”; lauds OTT for giving “immense opportunities”

Catch us for latest Bollywood News, New Bollywood Movies update, Box office collection, New Movies Release , Bollywood News Hindi, Entertainment News, Bollywood Live News Today & Upcoming Movies 2023 and stay updated with latest hindi movies only on Bollywood Hungama.