Right now if you go on Fanatics or the Eagles team store, you’ll find a Kenny G jersey with the #0:

Love this move by Kenny G here. #14 isn’t a bell cow running back number.

If you remember, the Eagles were the ones who came to the table first with this rule change, via Jeff Kerr at CBSSports.com:

0 allowed on jerseys: With the jersey number rules relaxed in recent years, the Eagles proposed a jersey modification that would allow the No. 0 on jerseys. The NFL allowed this number prior to the merger and the NCAA allowed the No. 0 on teams’ jerseys in 2020.

They originally said it was because they were running out of numbers, but I don’t buy that for a team that has only retired nine in franchise history and might have two more (Graham and Kelce) on the roster currently. There is something else here. The Eagles love exploiting loopholes like the double cheek push.

Good news for the people who have Kenny G’s old number – at least we’ll know who was riding with him from the start. It’ll be like Eagles fans who invested in Jalen Hurts early and went out to get his #2 jersey. No one is having a better year than those guys. They got in on Amazon in 1998 and now own a beach house in Avalon.

I wonder what the #0 for Gainwell stands for since he wore #19 at Memphis. Maybe it’s the number of regrets he has. Maybe it’s the amount of positive impact Jeffrey Lurie’s weather turbines had on top of the Linc. Maybe it’s the amount of losses the Eagles will have in the regular season. 17-0. Nakobe Dean and Kenny G.

P. S. Does this mean Christian Gonzalez is off the board? 610-632…

UPDATE: And just like that this rumor was debunked by Kenny Gainwell himself. He’s not changing his number to 0. But maybe a number change is in the works? Why else would Fanatics and the Eagles team store sell #0 jerseys?

Despite the new Fanatics/NFL Shop listings, Kenneth Gainwell confirmed today he is NOT changing his number to #0, via DM’s to a fan page of his on IG. He’s sticking with #14 #Eagles