College board president, Antioch and Brentwood teachers, Brentwood non-profit leader to be honored

Los Medanos College (LMC) is proud to announce the return of its annual awards to honor the legacy of César Chávez. The event had been on hiatus to help prevent the spread of COVID-19 and will be in person once again.

This community event celebrates the life of the labor leader and human rights activist. The celebration also recognizes East Contra Costa County community members who embody Chávez’s great tradition of voluntary service, civic activism, and non-violent social change.

The festivities, which are free and open to the public, will be from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. on Friday, April 21 in the Student Union Conference Center, Pittsburg Campus, 2700 E. Leland Road in Pittsburg.

Fernando Sandoval, Contra Costa Community College District Governing Board president, for work as president of Latino Voices of East Contra Costa County Chapter; community activist and education advocate; author; veteran; and Pittsburg resident.

Violeta Orozco, Jack London Elementary school counselor, for her work as head counselor at Antioch High School (AHS); and leadership for Puente at Antioch High School.

Diana Hidalgo for volunteer work at One Day at a Time (ODAT) and as president of ODAT Leadership Council.

Norma Guadalupe Zamora Arreguin, a human trafficking case specialist and certified investigator, for work as a paraprofessional at Garin Elementary School special education program (Brentwood); her own afterschool program for children with special needs; and as a part-time student at LMC.

The César Chávez Award for Exemplary Community Service, established in 1995, is presented to local residents who represent the core values modeled by César Chávez: “Service to Others, Sacrifice, A Preference to Help the Most Needy, Determination, Non-Violence, Acceptance of All People, Respect for Life and the Environment, Celebrating Community, Knowledge, and Innovation.”

The East County Educator Award honors members of the educational community who demonstrate a commitment to student success and equity, particularly for students of color and those from low-income families.

The Chávez Spirit Award recognizes up-and-coming leaders who have made a difference in the local community through advocacy and social justice.

RSVP for the event at César Chávez Awards ceremony. For more information about all of LMC’s activities celebrating César Chávez, visit www.losmedanos.edu/chavez/events.  Questions about the events or awards may be directed to Jennifer Adams at jadams@losmedanos.edu or (925) 473-7302.

LMC is one of three colleges in the Contra Costa Community College District, serving the East Contra Costa County community. Established in 1974, LMC has earned federal designations as a Minority-Serving and Hispanic-Serving institution. It offers award-winning transfer and career-technical programs support services, and diverse academic opportunities in an inclusive learning environment. With exceptional educators, innovative curriculum, growing degree and certificate offerings, and state-of-the-art facilities, the college prepares students to succeed in their educational pursuits, in the workforce, and beyond. LMC’s Pittsburg Campus is located on 120 acres bordering Antioch, with an additional education center in Brentwood.

This entry was posted  on Tuesday, April 18th, 2023 at 1:12 pm and is filed under Community, East County, Education, History. You can follow any responses to this entry through the RSS 2.0 feed. You can leave a response, or trackback from your own site.