Patricia M. LoRusso, DO, PhD (hc), has been elected president-elect of American Association for Cancer Research for 2023-2024.

“I am extremely honored to have the opportunity to promote the AACR’s mission and advocate for the support of cancer research on behalf of all AACR members,” LoRusso said in a press release. “We are facing both exciting and challenging times in cancer research and cancer care delivery.

“It is critical for clinical research to keep pace with the unparalleled scientific discoveries that we are achieving if we are to reduce the suffering and mortality from cancer,” LoRusso added. “Moreover, we must ensure that all patients have access to clinical trials. By bringing scientific discoveries into clinical trials and expanding the reach of trials to all populations, we will change the face of cancer.”

LoRusso will assume the association’s presidency during AACR Annual Meeting in April 2024 in San Diego.

“As AACR president, I look forward to championing the work of scientists, clinical trialists, clinicians and patient advocates — all with an eye to improving the care we provide patients with cancer,” she said.

LoRusso is chief of experimental therapeutics; associate cancer center director for experimental therapeutics; professor of medicine (medical oncology); and leader of the phase 1 disease aligned research team at Yale Cancer Center and Smilow Cancer Hospital.

She is recognized for her expertise in drug development and early-phase clinical investigation of novel therapies.

“Dr. LoRusso is an extraordinary physician-scientist whose pioneering work has spanned basic, translational, and clinical cancer research and has led to paradigm shifts in the treatment of cancer,” Margaret Foti, PhD, MD (hc), CEO of AACR, said in the release. “Additionally, she is a dedicated and supportive colleague and mentor whose years of service to the AACR have helped our organization grow in countless ways. The AACR and its global membership will benefit greatly from Dr. LoRusso’s vision, scientific expertise, and commitment to the AACR’s mission to prevent and cure all cancers as she assumes this new leadership position.”