The Tottenham squad are presumably frustrated after Saturday’s 3-2 defeat, although we believe Pape Matar Sarr should be the angriest of them all.

Well, the Senegal international has hardly been used by Cristian Stellini since he delivered a Man of the Match performance against AC Milan inside the San Siro.

Sarr was called upon for his Champions League debut by Antonio Conte back on Tuesday 14th February as Pierre-Emile Højbjerg, Rodrigo Bentancur and Yves Bissouma were all unavailable.

Spurs lost 1-0 to the Italian giants, although their £14.6m debutant was named Man of the Match on a night where he seemingly came of age in a Tottenham shirt.

Most other sides would have rewarded a fringe player for such a strong display with an increased amount of game time, although that has not been the case for Sarr.

Since his midfield masterclass in Milan, the 20-year-old has only been given eight minutes of action in the Premier League across four substitute appearances.

Sarr has been left on the bench in the other four Premier League games since that night at the San Siro.

It would make sense if Tottenham already had a phenomenal midfield and there was no room for Sarr.

However, Højbjerg has failed to impress in the second half of the season, while there is very little between Oliver Skipp and Sarr.

In our view, Sarr has been treated terribly by Tottenham.

Conte actually blocked a loan move to Salernitana back in January as he wanted to keep Sarr in N17.

The Italian told Football London: “Skipp and Sarr showed they they are really reliable players for me. I’m really happy. Now, they stay with us, in the squad. I don’t want to send these young players on loan because the league is very difficult.”

If you are going to rob a young talent of first-team action, you have to use him more regularly than just eight minutes of game time in eight weeks.

As Stellini struggles to get results, Sarr should be hammering down the Italian’s office door to ask why he isn’t playing more often.