AN over 50s fashion fan has told how she found a gorgeous summer dress in Dunnes Stores for just €15.

Bridie Molloy posts fashion and makeup content to the platform, and recently shared a “Dunnes Stores mini haul”.

Beginning the video she says she bought a summer dress, holding it up to the camera.

The dress is a blue shade with a white, green and pink floral pattern covering it.

The midi dress has stunning button detailing down the front and is elasticated on the back.

Bridie explains that the dress was reduced to just €50.

She says: “I bought that for the summer I like that shade of blue."

Next, she shows a beach towel-material poncho, consisting of a bright pattern made up of black, yellow, white, blue and pink.

She said that cost €20 and “is a nice size for the beach” and also has a hood.

She then shows an item she says she was looking at previously but is now reduced to €30 from €60.

She holds up a green and white striped oversized shirt with side pockets.

She explains: “You could throw that over your togs or bikini or just wear it as it is."

Bridie adds: “It’s beautiful on, it's really nice on I love it."

She also picked up a stunning summer dress costing €40.

The pink dress has a stunning floral pattern made up of green, white and red and features a circular metal detailing in the centre of the chest.

Bridie explains that she wasn’t sure if it would suit her, but “I have to say it’s fabulous on – I really love it on me”.

She explains that the dress is “slimming” and “really nice”.

Bridie adds: “If I were you I’d run, don’t walk to Dunnes for it – it's beautiful on."

Meanwhile, three new animal print statement pieces have hit the racks in Dunnes Stores – and they’re set to fly off the shelves.

The bold animal print items are available online and in stores nationwide.

The Animal Print Angel Sleeve Midi Dress is only €30.

Dunnes Stores chiefs said the midi dress will make “a striking statement”.

They said: “This mixed pink and orange animal print satin midi dress will making a striking statement, exclusive to Dunnes Stores.

“Cut in a flattering empire line shape, softly skimming the body that falls into a flattering midi length and a simple pull on style.

“A versatile dress, this midi design is perfect as a wedding guest dress or summer dress.”

The flattering midi dress comes in sizes eight to 22.

the matching Animal Print V-Neck Angel Sleeve Top is just €20.

Its description reads: “With a vibrant animal print in red and black against a fuchsia background, this v-neck top has flutter sleeves and adjustable ruching at the front.

“A stand-out evening wear piece, pair this with leather leggings or denim.”

It comes in sizes eight to 22.

It’s described as: “Designed in flowing satin, this skirt is all about the vibrant animal print.

“With a simple midi silhouette, it has a comfortable elasticated waistband and a side split.”

The Animal Print Midi Skirt comes in sizes eight to 22, costing €25.