We use cookies to personalize your experience. Learn more here.

View All Categories

Explore over 300 categories and sub-categories. From tech to sports and everything in between.

Staff Picks

Discover our team’s favorite products. Curated and updated every day.

Videos

Discover our newly curated products through their videos every day.

Now Trending

Find the most popular products based on engagement. Updated automatically every day.

Official Magazine

Read our latest articles, including our popular Daily Digest and product roundups.

We regularly adjust ratings based on user feedback and product reviews. We update ratings to better inform our readers. Our goal is to be a trusted source of information, and we want to protect you from products and brands with major issues. After receiving negative feedback from users about a product, the Gadget Flow team will take another look at it and ensure the review’s credibility.

What would you like to report?

iChessOne foldable electronic chessboard is made of wood & has online server integration

Get the best of both worlds with the iChessOne foldable electronic chessboard. With it, you can play chess online with anyone in the world—but on a real board! This wooden, folding tournament chessboard offers online chess server integration as well as internal memory. This saves OTB games that you play with a friend and generates PGN for analysis. Additionally, it offers multicolored LED indication along with full pieces recognition. Thanks to its folding design, it’s also easy to take on the go. With an all-in-one design, it stores 34 Staunton style pieces (with 2 extra queens), a USB-C cable, a mobile phone stand, and a pen. Finally, it has a built-in battery that allows for several hours of gameplay on a single charge!

iChessOne foldable electronic chessboard is made of wood & has online server integration

Play with anyone, anytime on a real chessboard!

Gadget Flow is the original product discovery platform that keeps you up to date with the latest tech, gear, and most incredible crowdfunding campaigns. Reaching over 31 million people per month, we also have iOS and Android apps that support AR and VR for next-level product exploration.

We keep you updated with the latest tech product announcements for everything from the newest drones to obscure gaming gadgets. Our team discovers unique products and covers the latest crowdfunding campaigns. Save gadgets to your private or public wish lists, check out our team’s expert reviews, and purchase products directly from trusted sellers.

Gadget Flow is headquartered in New York City, and most of our team works remotely from the US and Europe. We are tech enthusiasts who love to learn about new technologies and the latest innovations. Talented individuals who are passionate about the future, we work tirelessly and love to excite you and teach you about advancements in our field.

Explore the world of Gadget Flow so you know when any new tech launches—anywhere. Create your account using your email or any of our supported third-party logins, such as Google, Apple, and Facebook.

Sign up to create private and public wish lists that you can share with family and friends. It’s also easy to organize your favorite gadgets into different collections, like gift guides, smart home products you love, and more.

What do you do when you find a product that you love but aren’t ready to buy? Simply create a notification! Click the three little dots by the buy now button and select Add Reminder to get notified. Receive a reminder when it’s discounted, Black Friday, the next season, or any date you choose.

Now you can discover new products through our video feed. With Gadget Flow Watch, browse through your favorite categories and create playlists. Our endless selection of videos will have you discovering gadgets for hours.

See all of our features:

Discover our products in VR, AR, and 3D

Our Mission: Help You Find the Best Gadgets

We simplify product discovery. This means you can find all the greatest gadgets in record time. As a technology company, our mission since 2012 has been to make it easy for you to discover quality products and stay updated with the latest trends.

It’s the gear you can’t live without: the smartphone you constantly check, the camera that goes on every vacation, and the TV for binge-watching and gaming. All the coolest gadgets owe their existence to a new technology that changed it all.

What Are the Types of Gadgets?

Gadgets include everything from phones like iPhone and VR headsets like Oculus to gaming consoles like PlayStation 5 and robots like Roomba.

Mainstream gadgets include TVs, consoles, smart devices, cameras, headphones, and music devices. However, there are a ton of unique gadgets for fun, learning, and more. Here’s a full list of gadgets that are currently trending on Gadget Flow.

What Are the Top New Tech Trends?

Technology evolves every day, and some of the most popular tech trends include AI, robotic process automation, edge computing, quantum computing, virtual reality, blockchain, IoT, 5G, augmented reality, self-driving, big data, machine learning, and voice search.