Lauren: And for you, that wasn't specifically just entrepreneurship. It was, it was also payments.

Max: Yes. So as a, uh, college student, I got into cryptography, you used to be able to say crypto, but these days it means something else.

Lauren: Right. The actual enigma is what you studied.

Max: Yes, exactly. So I got quite into cryptography and instead of becoming a spy, which I was really hoping to become, but a lack of citizenship put a bit of a stoppage to it. I ended up getting into payments, which is a close second in my mind. And, helped start PayPal and meandered through lots of other payments projects over the years. And finally ended up thinking that the structure under payments, when we hand our card to someone, we don't really think too hard what's gonna happen next, but underneath you're either drawing it from a bank account if it's a debit card or drawing it on a line if it's a credit card. And a credit card is not the best structure for consumers at all. If you actually look at how corporations borrow money with their armies of lawyers, you never hear about companies going out of business because, oops, they didn't realize they owed as much money or accrued too much interest or had too many late fees. Consumers get into trouble, and by that I mean bankruptcies are worse all the time when they borrow money. Like the disconnect is profound.

Lauren: Real people, consumers are using buy now, pay later for groceries. And I asked you last year when we spoke, I said, what does society look like? What does it mean when we become a society that has people using buy now, pay later for gas or for food? And some new data suggests that particularly in the first couple months of 2023, that groceries are in fact a big driver. They're becoming a big driver for buy now, pay later. I know that your answer is going to be better that than credit cards, but I'm just wondering like, is this the future that we want? Is this a good future where people do have to use buy now, pay later to buy a sandwich?

Max: Well, you're right. I will answer better that than credit cards. I think the thing that credit cards have successfully done—it's an amazing magic trick—is they've convinced people that creating this debt that just sits over there in a corner and we don't really talk about it because it's all commingled. Maybe it's a couch, maybe it's a bicycle, maybe it's a sandwich, maybe it's a carton of milk, but it's all one big number and then we slowly pay it down and it's OK. But the idea of “I just borrowed money to buy a carton of milk” is somehow a gasp-inducing moment, “my goodness, you know, have you no shame.” We are borrowing money every time we swipe a credit card. Full stop. Now, those of us who live on the coasts and make excellent salaries probably just pay it off at the end of the month, and credit cards for us feel like this thing where, well, I'm not actually in debt. I'll, I'll be done in 15 days on average. But for the vast majority of Americans, it goes into this big bucket and most of them—something like two-thirds of the country—is revolving on seven-and-a-half thousand dollars. A lot of those seven-and-a-half thousand dollars are groceries and milk and all the various things that we have to buy to feed our families. I think the idea that, well, it's a little bit less embarrassing that we're in debt over food because it's all commingled, is a silly idea that we allowed ourselves to be fooled by. A much better model is when you know. You will be done paying off all of your debt, whether it's for bicycles or couches or milk by a certain date. That should give you a sense of certainty and sense of control. And those are the two words by the way that our consumers use all the time when they write us back.