Skip to main content

The 2016 U. S. presidential election coincided with the rise of the “alternative right” or “alt-right.” However, not much is known about the factors that drive the alt-right. To this end, researchers Forscher and Kteily set out to profile the alt-right across a wide spectrum of psychological and political traits. Their research found that approximately 6% of the U.S. population and 10% of Trump voters can be classified as alt-right, and that the alt-right is associated with a distinct psychological profile that is different from that of liberals or conservatives.

Is your profile the closest to that of a liberal, a conservative, or the alt-right? For each of the following questions, indicate your level of agreement below.

What the young need most is strict discipline and rugged determination.

The IDRlabs Alt-right Profiling Test (IDR-ARPT©) is the property of IDRlabs International. The IDR-ARPT is primarily based on the research of Forscher, P. S., & Kteily, N. (2019, June 7). A Psychological Profile of the Alt-Right. Retrieved from osf.io/xge8q. Preprint DOI: 10.31234/osf.io/c9uvw, but is not associated with Forscher, Kteily, or their academic institutions. The present test is in no way endorsed by, nor affiliated with, Forscher, Kteily, the alt-right, or any political party. No infringement is intended by the present test.

This Alt-right Profiling Test has been made with the aid of professional analysts who have experience with political psychology. The test uses genuine psychometric items to measure the respondent’s correspondence to underlying political patterns, as well as to gauge the respondent’s general political profile in comparison with those of a typical liberal, conservative, or alt-righter. The test is based on the research of Forscher, P. S., & Kteily, N. (2019, June 7). A Psychological Profile of the Alt-Right. Retrieved from osf.io/xge8q. Preprint DOI: 10.31234/osf.io/c9uvw, who draw from a wide range of social science findings. For the full list of academic references, please consult the References section on the result page.

Alt-right Profiling Tests, whether they are professional, used in academic research, or free online tests like this one, are indicators to help give you a clue as to your typical thought patterns and your general thoughts, values, feelings, and behaviors as these relate to participation in society. In general, when dealing with political profiling tests like this one, no test ever devised can designate your political allegiance with complete accuracy or reliability, and no test can replace familiarizing yourself with the issues related to politics in depth. For more information on the Alt-right Profiling Test, consult materials from the original paper: Forscher, P. S., & Kteily, N. (2019, June 7). A Psychological Profile of the Alt-Right. Retrieved from osf.io/xge8q. Preprint DOI: 10.31234/osf.io/c9uvw.

The authors of this free online Alt-right Profiling Test are certified in the use of numerous different personality tests and have worked professionally with psychology, political psychology, and personality testing. Prior to using our free online alt-right test, please note that the results are provided "as-is", for free, and should not be construed as providing professional or certified advice of any kind. For more on our online alt-right test, please consult our Terms of Service.

Why Use This Test?

1. Free. This free online Political Profiling Test is delivered to you free of charge and will allow you to explore how your personality, thoughts, and behavior relate to liberals, conservatives, and the alt-right across 18 different dimensions.

2. Based on research findings. This test is principally based on the work of researchers Forscher & Kteily (2019), which brings together research from several different surveys to construct a comprehensive profile on an individual’s values, outlook, thoughts, and behavior, as deemed relevant to the formation of their political position.

3. Relevant to the current political climate. The amorphous structure of the alt-right has often made it hard to pin down who its adherents are and what they actually believe. Though there has been much debate about the alt-right and its beliefs, Forscher & Kteily’s work represent the first systematic attempt to construct a scientifically-informed profile of the alt-right, as well as an opportunity to compare the values and behavior of the alt-right to those of mainstream conservatives and liberals.

4. Statistical controls. User results for the present test are logged into an anonymized database, and statistical analyses are performed to ensure results are as valid and reliable as possible.

5. Created by professionals. This test has been created by research professionals experienced in political psychology and political science.