Sixteen players stood down since NRL’s new concussion rules introduced

We’re sorry, this feature is currently unavailable. We’re working to restore it. Please try again later.

Skip to sections navigationSkip to contentSkip to footer

Sixteen players stood down since NRL’s new concussion rules introduced, register or subscribe to save articles for later. Add articles to your saved list and come back to them any time.Sixteen NRL players have been sidelined from games this year after the sport’s governing body implemented a mandatory 11-day stand-down period from round three for any player diagnosed with a brain injury.However, despite efforts from the game’s officials, concussions have increased in the opening six rounds of 2023, up 60 per cent on the same period last year.Thirty-two players have suffered a concussion this season, compared to 20 during rounds one to six last year, Raiders winger Jordan Rapana and the Warriors’ Wayde Egan two of the most recent players to suffer head injuries.The new ruling, which was introduced the week after Knights’ skipper Kalyn Ponga suffered his fourth concussion in 10 months, has been welcomed by clubs and players alike, and the NRL told the Herald there have been no exemption applications from clubs.While it is too soon to measure the success of the stand-down policy, Rugby League Players Association chief executive Clint Newton said it is a step in the right direction.Jordan Rapana was left bloodied and shaken against Brisbane.​“The mandatory stand down was brought in with the players’ short- and long-term health and safety in mind, so it is difficult to measure so soon after its introduction,” he said. “Players will always want to play for their club, state and nation. To take the next match out of the equation is a positive step forward, and we fully support it.”However, Newton called on the NRL to take further action by reducing the number of failed HIAs needed to activate a team’s 18th man.“For this season we successfully advocated for the 18th player to be activated from three failed HIAs to two, but we would like to see that threshold reduced further to just a single HIA,” Newton said. “We don’t believe there is an excuse that would outweigh the need to protect the health and welfare of players.”NSW State of Origin doctor Nathan Gibbs said the 11-day stand down had been implemented in an effort to prevent players from returning too early, but scientifically it has no correlation to proven recovery time.“The eleven-day period simply is in place because it takes the Thursday game to the next Sunday game – that’s 11 days – so it means a player would miss the next weekend’s fixtures as a minimum in that situation,” Gibbs said.“They are arbitrary stand-down periods; they’re not dealing with an individual concussion in a player, which can definitely have a variable recovery rate.”Eleven days can be more than enough time for one person to recover, said Gibbs, but another may need weeks, or even months.“The symptoms of a concussion can vary immensely between different individuals ... and all concussion injuries can have a totally variable recovery time, not based upon the initial symptom severity,” Gibbs said.“Sometimes the headache after the game can be the person who has it [a concussion] for six weeks. The loss-of-consciousness player can be 100 per cent normal in the dressing room an hour after the game. So, the initial symptom severity has no correlation with the recovery time.”The solution to the concussion issue is far from simple, Newton said, but it is a complicated problem that needs a comprehensive response.“The management of head injuries and trauma is also about minimising the risk of them occurring, not just diagnosis and return-to-play management,” he said. “Contact loads at training come into that, and so do the season schedule and turnaround times after NRL and representative games.“We will continue to advocate for the game to be vigilant in this space. Taking caution is better than standing still, and it is critical that the players’ association and governing body work together.”Stream the NRL premiership 2023 live and free on 9Now. Sports news, results and expert commentary. Sign up for our Sport newsletter., register or subscribe to save articles for later.Billie Eder is a sports reporter at The Sydney Morning Herald.