A Kiwi family are desperately trying to get their mum home from the Cook Islands after she suffered a stroke.

Helen Spurle, 68, moved to the Cook Islands from Auckland’s New Lynn in September after retiring from her job as a military driver with the Air Force.

Last week, after suffering an earache, she fell unconscious while waiting to see a doctor.

She was diagnosed with a brain stem stroke and the possibility of meningitis – infected and inflamed fluid and membranes surrounding the brain.

READ MORE:

* Raro Buggy Tours: This crazy mud adventure needs to be on your bucket list

* Bubble inspiration: Five of the best things to do in the Cook Islands

* Covid-19's 'striking' impact on brain includes inflammation, blood vessel damage

Spurle has been in Rarotonga Hospital ever since.

“She had no recollection of anything when she woke up [in hospital] on Friday. However, now she knows she is in a hospital,” her daughter Nicole Spurle, who also lives in the Cook Islands, said.

The hospital did its best with the resources available, her daughter said.

“Unfortunately Helen needs to go to New Zealand to get the appropriate testing done.”

Nicole Spurle and her sisters – one of whom lives in Australia and one of whom lives in New Zealand – are now trying to raise $94,000 for a medevac from Rarotonga to New Zealand.

Helen Spurle, third from right, with her family in the Cook Islands.

They are also looking at ways to get a doctor from New Zealand to the Cook Islands.

“It is a hard situation for us. We can’t afford medevac,” Nicole Spurle said.

She described her mum as an outgoing and “bubbly” woman who had already survived breast cancer.

Beloved children's writer Joy Cowley and husband Terry Coles share their story of their life with stroke.

“She wanted to come to Rarotonga to spend her happy retirement time with her grandchildren.”

A Ministry of Foreign Affairs & Trade spokesperson said they couldn’t comment on Spurle’s case for privacy reasons.

“The New Zealand government does not cover medical costs – including costs involved with returning to New Zealand – for people who fall ill or are injured while overseas.”

Spurle’s family has set up a Givealittle page to raise funds for a medevac.