Something went wrong, please try again later.

Want all the latest North Wales sports news direct to your inbox? Share your email for the biggest headlines, transfer news and more

Something went wrong, please try again later.

Want all the latest North Wales sports news direct to your inbox? Share your email for the biggest headlines, transfer news and more

Ryan Reynolds seems to have unwittingly set a high bar for himself regarding his next grand birthday gesture. Last week, we reported how the Wrexham AFC co-chairman unveiled a spectacular Broadway-worthy video in honour of his friend and business partner Rob McElhenney turning 46.

In the two-minute clip, Ryan sings a song poking fun at the fact that many people seemingly struggle to pronounce Rob's name. The video features well-known faces from Rob's long-running hit sitcom It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia as well as several Wrexham fans at the Racecourse and in the iconic Turf pub.

A lovely and elaborate gesture, I'm sure we can all agree - one which caught the world's attention and definitely trumps Reynolds' 'urinal' gift to Rob McElhenney last year. However, it's not the world that the Deadpool actor is worried about.

The video has also piqued the interest of Reynold's wife Blake Lively - and it has naturally led the Gossip Girl actress to wonder what he has in store for her this summer. Sharing the video on her Instagram account Lively, who has four children with husband Reynolds, wrote 'Wow. That's a lot of effort you (Reynolds) have put into this."

And here's the kicker - the one sentence bound to bring sweat to any man's brow. She finished off the post by saying "can't wait for August 25."

What happens on August 25 I hear you say? Well, it is Blake Lively's birthday. Reynolds himself responded to that post with a GIF (moving picture) of a gulping face. Nervous? We would be.

The couple are famed for their online banter when it comes to birthdays and Ryan has previously posted some comical gestures aimed at his dearly beloved to mark her birthdays.

When Lively turned 34, Reynolds jokingly aimed a cheeky dig at his wife by instead praising songstress Mariah Carey, saying on Instagram "My favourite thing that's ever happened on August 25." He also posted a picture of the couple on the red carpet on the day of her 30th birthday in 2017 but more-or-less cropped her out of the image altogether.

He'll definitely need to up the ante this year.