The Court of Appeal’s decision to free Sam Ke Ting yesterday (April 11) from the Basikal Lajak case was well-received by many Malaysians. While Sam admitted that the accident will always haunt her, the parents of the deceased teens are undeniably feeling the worst pain.

What do they think of the court’s verdict on Sam’s case?

The mother of one of the deceased teens said that Sam’s release was not a surprise, and while they’re disappointed with the verdict, there is nothing they can or will do.

“Other parents and I have expected the verdict since she brought the matter to the Court of Appeal. We’re disappointed but we accept the fate, and life goes on.”

In response to the criticisms online, she said that everyone has been pointing fingers at the parents of the deceased teens.

“We were blamed for being irresponsible and allowing them to be on the road at 3 am. If only we knew the kids were out there, we wouldn’t have allowed them too,” she explained.

She also said the parents are saddened by the criticisms online but have decided to just “swallow” everything and take it as a test for them.

In the meantime, the father of another deceased teen couldn’t deny the trauma every time the matter gets mentioned. However, he’s convinced that Sam also regrets what happened on that fateful night in February 2017, and said that time will heal everything, reported Buletin TV3.

“I’m sure Sam is haunted by the accident too, and she’ll probably feel it for a long time. Let Sam and us heal while we move on with our lives.”

6 years ago, Sam got into an accident with 8 teens on Basikal Lajak on a highway in JB, which caused all of their deaths. She was initially found guilty and sentenced to 6 years of prison before she was released on RM10,000 bail.

We do hope that this case will be a solid and stern reminder to all the kids out there who find joy and thrills in riding on modified bikes, as well as anyone who endorses this dangerous activity.

Also read: Sam Ke Ting Apologises to Families of Deceased Teens, Says She’s Still Haunted by the Accident