Awesome Offer – Established Gold Coast Pressure Cleaning Business For Sale, with Equipment, Website, Training. Present Owner has turned over $150K per annum for the last 3 years – usually working only until noon! This gives you flexibility to work mornings only or work 3 days a week, from home – resulting in very low overheads.

It is a locally owned and operated independent business (not a franchise) that provides high pressure cleaning services on the Gold Coast. Our team of skilled professionals are dedicated to providing top-quality services and making sure that every customer is satisfied with the results – We have a great reputation.

Our state-of-the-art high pressure cleaning equipment is included. Our equipment has been regularly maintained and updated to ensure that we're always using the best tools for the job.

We service a wide range of businesses on the Gold Coast, including Restaurants, Retail Stores and Cafes, Office Buildings and Private Clients. We also work with property managers and homeowners' associations to clean common areas, paths, and other exterior surfaces.

Website Included

We're proud of the work we have done and have a gallery of before and after photos on our website that showcase the transformations we've achieved for other Gold Coast businesses and homes. A big part of our competitive advantage is Page One Google Results for a variety of search terms.

Examples: gold coast pressure cleaning, pressure cleaning gold coast, Pressure Washing Services in Arundel (most Suburbs have Page 1 Listings), Gold Coast Residential Pressure Cleaning and more.

We have also locked up most of the good Website Addresses available,

This control of good website names makes it difficult for competitors to buy a good domain name and ensures that anyone typing in any of the above names ends up on a website you own.

Service Areas and Coverage

Our target market is the Gold Coast area, including South Brisbane, Tweed and surrounding areas.

The established phone number is included in the sale.

Great Branding

You cannot get a better website address than this!

Other Info

Minimal training and experience is required to operate this business. Present Owner will work with you for one week to hand over and provide training.

Business is home based, so has low overheads. We do not use AdWords, instead relying on natural Google results. Comprehensive tuition will be included in the sale.

Equipment Included

Financials

Will be available to prospective Buyers by appointment. Turnover has exceeded $150,000 for the last 3 years, with low overheads.

Working Hours

Usually finished by 12 noon but occasionally emergency jobs as the business provides 24/7 Service. And emergency jobs pay well!

Why Am I Selling?

Owner is pursuing new Business Ventures.

For more information, please contact us by using the form below.