,  /PRNewswire/ -- Golden Grail Technology doing business as Golden Grail Beverages, (OTC: GOGY), is pleased to announce our expanded partnership with Southeastern Marketing & Distribution to include distribution of Sway Energy in the state of Kentucky.

Southeastern Marketing & Distribution is a premier wholesale distributor of convenience store products and general merchandise offering a large variety of energy drinks, dietary herbal supplements, medicines, pain relievers, health and personal care items, cell phone accessories and more.

"Southeastern Marketing & Distribution is our distributor for Cause Water in the state of Kentucky and we are happy to announce that they will also be our distributor for Sway Energy in Kentucky" said Steve Hoffman, CEO of Golden Grail.

Golden Grail Beverages (OTC: GOGY) www. GoldenGrailBeverages.com is a fast-growing company with a strategic mission to innovate, build and streamline the growth of its beverage portfolio through fiscally responsible investing. The company targets brands with a proven sales history, loyal consumer following, retail presence and strong value proposition who need assistance to get to the next few levels. Golden Grail has been actively acquiring brands within emerging and growing beverage categories. Our robust product offerings include Sway Energy Drink, Spider Energy Drink, Trevi Fruit Essence Water, Tickle Water, Sketch Can for Tweens, Cause Water & KOZ Water helping reduce global plastic pollution and Scorpion Energy Hemp/CBD.

This press release includes forward-looking statements concerning the future performance of our business, its operations and its financial performance and condition. Also, it includes selected operating results presented without the context of accompanying financial results. These forward-looking statements include, among others, statements with respect to our objectives and strategies to achieve those objectives, as well as statements with respect to our beliefs, plans, expectations, anticipations, estimates or intentions. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations. We caution that all forward-looking information is inherently uncertain and actual results may differ materially from the assumptions, estimates or expectations reflected or contained in the forward-looking information, and that actual future performance will be affected by a number of factors, including economic conditions, technological change, regulatory change and competitive factors, many of which are beyond our control. Therefore, future events and results may vary significantly from what we currently foresee. We are under no obligation (and we expressly disclaim any such obligation) to update or alter the forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.