English import Zach Kibirige has an early Super Rugby Pacific try of the year submission for the Western Force.

The visitors lost to the Waratahs in Sydney, going down 36-16. However, there were some moments of magic from the Force.

The Kibirige try was the final effort for the Perth-based team, which was set up by a cross-field kick courtesy of Hamish Stewart.

Watch the 2023 Super Rugby Pacific and Super W seasons on the home of rugby, Stan Sport. All matches streaming ad free, live and on demand

Kibirige leapt into the air, beat Izaia Perese to the ball, chipped it over the top of Max Jorgensen, and gathered the ball again to score.

"That's try of the year stuff," hailed Stan Sport commentator Sean Maloney.

"We know he can go but man oh man, can he go!"

Former Wallabies star Morgan Turinui added, "He just stole that away from the Waratahs a couple of times.

"Unbelievable piece of skill from Kibirige on the edge. A little cross kick, in the air, just comes over the top of Perese, too good for him, and then sums it up; you know what? I'll just chip over you. Max Jorgensen, out-pace you, And get the ball down."

Kibirige, who previously played for the Falcons and more recently the Wasps in Premiership Rugby in England, said it was a planned attack.

"It's the sort of skills that us wingers and back three players practice a lot – it's nice when they come off," said Kibirige.

It was the second time Stewart had played a key part in the contest, having set up Manasa Mataele for the first Force try in the 60th minute.

It was a contest otherwise dominated by the Waratahs, who led 22-6 at half time after Perese, Mark Nawaqanitawase, and captain Jake Gordon scored tries.

The last of those three tries saw Gordon effectively intercept a grubber kick before running half the length of the field.

Harry Johnson-Holmes scored the penultimate try for the Waratahs before they let the Force in twice.

Perese bookended the evening, finishing the night the way he started it with a try in the final minute.

For the Force's star player Kibirige, it was an annoying end to the 80-minute contest.

"It's really frustrating for us," he said.

"I think we were well in the game. It's probably our own mistakes and our own ill-discipline that's killed us a little bit, which makes it even more frustrating.

"There are definitely things we can fix. If anything, it's a positive that those things are in our control, so we've got some real work ons."

The victory snapped a four-match losing streak for the Waratahs, who still languish towards the bottom of the Super Rugby Pacific table.

That has vaulted the Waratahs from 11th to eighth equal while the Force sit second-to-last.

The ninth round will see the Waratahs face the Blues in Auckland while the Force go head-to-head with the Highlanders in Perth.

For a daily dose of the best of the breaking news and exclusive content from Wide World of Sports, subscribe to our newsletter by clicking here!