So you’ve got your social media up and running, a lead magnet in place that’s growing your mailing list. your paid ads are out in the world, and you’re busy networking to build your reputation.

Before you give yourself a high five, there are a couple more steps to go on your business growth strategy, and they’re probably the most crucial. They can also feel like the biggest leap for women who get the ick around sales.

But don’t panic! Joy’s got a whole heap of advice about how to make these steps work for you.

Discover a simple reframe that will help you get over the ick factor of sales, then be inspired by the kind of offers we make at TechPixies and the KPIs we measure to see what is and isn’t working.

[10:24] What is more important: building a course or making an offer?

[11:52] How many people do you need on your mailing list to make an offer?

[12:49] Should you make an offer from the get-go?

[18:36] What are you doing with the money you’re making?

[27:28] What KPIs should you be measuring?

[34:48] Do you have your deliverables and operations sorted?

[37:42] Do you need business coaching?

If you want to go deeper on all this, come and grab the recording of our Business Masterclass HERE.

Love our podcast? Leave a review and get hold of our Quick Start Podcast Guide.

Transform your life. At TechPixies, we’re turning around the lives of women everywhere with our award-winning social media training and life coaching. Come and find out more at TechPixies.com.

Get in touch. If you’ve got a question you want the answer to or a problem you need solving, or you have suggestions for future topics and guests, let us know. Email us at [email protected] – we’d love to hear from you.

Your opinion matters. If you’ve loved this episode, please rate and review the show. We want to transform the lives of as many women as possible, and your support helps us do just that. We even have a special gift as a thank you! When you submit a screengrab of your podcast subscription, we’ll send you our ‘Quick Start Guide to Podcasting’.

Listen up! Don’t miss out. We have so much content we want to share with you and many exciting episodes in the pipeline. Ensure you never miss an episode by following us at podfollow.com/techpixies. Subscribe now on Apple Podcasts or follow the Sparkle and Thrive podcast on Spotify.