CORONA NON-ALCOHOLIC INSTANT WIN GAME/SWEEPSTAKES OFFICIAL RULES

NO PURCHASE NECESSARY TO PLAY THE GAME/ENTER THE SWEEPSTAKES.

A PURCHASE DOES NOT INCREASE YOUR CHANCES OF WINNING.

PROMOTION PERIOD: The Corona Non-Alcoholic Instant Win Game/Sweepstakes (the “Promotion”) begins at 10:00 AM Eastern Time (“ET”) on April 17, 2023 and ends at 11:59 PM ET on May 6, 2023 (the “Promotion Period”). The Promotion consists of an instant win game (“Game”) (void in New Jersey) and a random draw sweepstakes (“Sweepstakes”) (for NJ residents only).

ELIGIBILITY: The Game is open to legal residents of forty-nine (49) states of the United States (excluding New Jersey) and the District of Columbia, who are 21 years of age or older as of date of Game play. The Game is void in New Jersey and where prohibited. The Sweepstakes is open only to legal U. S. residents residing in New Jersey, who are 21 years of age or older as of date of Sweepstakes entry. The Sweepstakes is void outside New Jersey and where prohibited. Employees of Crown Imports LLC (“Sponsor”), Don Jagoda Associates, Inc. (“Administrator”), their respective parents, subsidiaries, divisions, affiliates, suppliers, distributors, officers, directors, employees, shareholders, and advertising, promotional and judging agencies (collectively, “Released Parties”), any person affiliated with the alcoholic beverage industry, including but not limited to retailers of alcohol products, and their immediate and extended family members (including but not limited to spouses, domestic partners, parents, children, and siblings) and household members of each (whether related or not) are not eligible to participate or win. All federal, state and local laws and regulations apply. Participation constitutes entrant’s full and unconditional agreement to these Official Rules and Sponsor’s and Administrator’s decisions, which are final and binding in all matters related to the Promotion. Winning a prize is contingent upon fulfilling all requirements set forth herein.

HOW TO PLAY THE GAME/ENTER THE SWEEPSTAKES: During the Promotion Period, go to coronausa.com/pages/dayafterflex (“Website”) and follow the instructions to have your email address validated. Then, once your email address has been successfully validated, complete and submit the Website registration form (“Form”), for a chance to instantly win a Game prize (“Game Play”) or, if you are a NJ resident, to receive one (1) entry into the Sweepstakes drawing (“Sweepstakes Entry”). Potential instant win Game prize winners will receive a winning message including the word, “Congratulations.” If you receive a non-winning message including the word, “Sorry,” you are not an instant Game prize winner. Multiple participants are not permitted to share the same email address to submit a Sweepstakes Entry or a Game Play. Limit one (1) Game Play or Sweepstakes Entry per eligible person/email address, per day.

GAME PLAY VERIFICATION/PRIZE AWARD: All winning Game Plays are subject to verification. If, due to an error of any kind, more instant winning messages are delivered to participants, or more instant win Game prizes are claimed than are intended to be awarded per Rule #7, the intended number of Game prizes will be awarded in a random drawing from among all verified Game prize claims received. Verified Game prize winners will receive their prize via email within six (6) to eight (8) weeks after their winning Game Play has been verified. Return of any Game prize/Game prize notification as undeliverable, or declining a Game prize for any reason, will result in disqualification without further notice and an alternate winner will be selected in the Second Chance Drawing.

SWEEPSTAKES RANDOM DRAWING FOR NJ RESIDENTS ONLY/PRIZE AWARD: Twenty (20) Sweepstakes Prize winners (as described below in Rule #7) will be selected on or about May 8, 2023 from among all eligible Sweepstakes Entries received during the Promotion Period. Random drawing will be conducted by Administrator, an independent judging organization whose decisions are final on all matters relating to the Promotion. Odds of winning a Sweepstakes prize depend upon the number of eligible Sweepstakes Entries received during the Promotion Period. Sweepstakes Prize winners will receive their prize via email within six (6) to eight (8) weeks after the Sweepstakes Random Drawing.

SECOND CHANCE DRAWING/PRIZE AWARD: Any unclaimed or unawarded Game prizes (or Game prizes returned as undeliverable) will be awarded in a second chance random drawing (“Second Chance Drawing”), conducted by the Administrator on or about June 2, 2023, from among all eligible non-winning Game Plays received throughout the Promotion Period (regardless of the Daily Game Play Period). Odds of winning a Game prize in the Second Chance Drawing depend upon the number of eligible Game Plays received during the Promotion Period and number of unclaimed/unawarded Game prizes (if any). Second Chance winners will receive their prize via email within six (6) to eight (8) weeks after the Second Chance Drawing. Noncompliance within any specified time period or return of any prize/prize notification as undeliverable, or declining a prize for any reason, will result in disqualification without further notice and selection of an alternate winner, in a random drawing from among all remaining eligible Game Plays.

GAME PRIZES: Nine hundred eighty (980) Game Prizes (forty-nine [49] per day): A $15 Sponsor-specified gift card. Gift card terms and conditions apply. Overall approximate odds of winning a Game prize are 1 in 1,000. Actual odds of winning a Game prize depend upon the total number eligible Game Plays received each day and the time of day of the Game Play. Unclaimed/unawarded Game prizes will be awarded in a Second Chance drawing.

SWEEPSTAKES PRIZES: Twenty (20) Sweepstakes Prizes: A $15 Sponsor-specified gift card. Gift card terms and conditions apply.

GENERAL CONDITIONS, RELEASE AND LIMITATION OF LIABILITY: Limit one (1) Game prize per person/household. Limit one (1) Sweepstakes prize per person/household. Prizes consist of only the item specifically listed as the prize in these Official Rules. No alcohol is awarded with prizes. All prizes are awarded “as is” with no warranty or guarantee, either expressed or implied by Sponsor. Winners are responsible for any and all federal, state and local taxes. No transfer, assignment, substitution or cash equivalent for any prize will be permitted, except at the sole discretion of the Sponsor due to prize unavailability for any reason. In such circumstance, an alternate prize of equal value will be awarded and Sponsor’s obligation to the winner will be fulfilled, and no other additional compensation will be provided. Resale of prizes is prohibited. In no event will more than the stated number of Game prizes or Sweepstakes prizes be awarded. If an entrant submits more than the stated number of Sweepstakes Entries/Game Plays permitted, and/or if the Sponsor or Administrator suspects that an entrant attempted to obtain additional Sweepstakes Entries/Game Plays by using multiple or different email addresses, registrations, identities or any other method, Sponsor and Administrator will void that entrant’s Sweepstakes Entries/Game Plays and that entrant may be disqualified. Sweepstakes Entries/Game Plays generated by script, macro or other automated means and Sweepstakes Entries/Game Plays by any means which subvert the Sweepstakes Entry/Game Play process are void. Sweepstakes Entries/Game Plays will not be acknowledged or returned. The Released Parties are not responsible for lost, late, incomplete, misdirected, invalid or unintelligible Sweepstakes Entries/Game Plays, which will be disqualified. Any use of robotic, repetitive, automatic, programmed or similar sweepstakes entry/game play methods or agents (including, but not limited to, sweepstakes entry/game play services to create fraudulent phone numbers and/or identities) will void all Sweepstakes Entries/Game Plays by that entrant. Normal internet access and data charges imposed by your internet/wireless phone service provider may apply. See your internet/wireless provider for pricing plan details. In the event of a dispute as to any Entry/Game Play, the authorized account holder of the email address used to enter will be deemed the entrant. The “authorized account holder of the email address” is the natural person assigned an email address by an Internet access provider, online service provider or other organization, (e.g., business, educational institution, etc.) responsible for assigning email addresses for the domain associated with the submitted address. Potential winners may be required to show proof of being the authorized account holder associated with the Entry/Game Play. In exchange for the right to participate in the Promotion, entrants/winners agree to release, discharge and hold harmless Released Parties, from and against any and all liability (including, but not limited to, damages caused or claimed to be caused, losses, or injury) arising out of participation and/or acceptance/use or misuse of the prize, and agree to be bound by these Official Rules and Administrator’s or Sponsor’s decisions, which are final. In the event there is a discrepancy or inconsistency between disclosures or other statements contained in any Promotion materials and the terms and conditions of the Official Rules, the English version of the Official Rules shall prevail, govern and control. The Released Parties are not responsible for any typographical or other error in the printing of the Promotion material, administration of the Promotion or in the announcement of the prizes. NOTICE: ANY ATTEMPT BY AN INDIVIDUAL TO DELIBERATELY DAMAGE ANY WEBSITE OR UNDERMINE THE LEGITIMATE OPERATION OF THIS PROMOTION IS A VIOLATION OF CRIMINAL AND CIVIL LAWS, AND SHOULD SUCH AN ATTEMPT BE MADE, SPONSOR RESERVES THE RIGHT TO SEEK DAMAGES FROM ANY SUCH INDIVIDUAL TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW. The Released Parties are not responsible for faulty, incorrect, undeliverable or mistranscribed phone/email transmissions, incorrect announcements of any kind, technical hardware or software failures of any kind including any injury or damage to any person’s computer, phone or device related to or resulting from participating in or experiencing any materials in connection with the Promotion, lost or unavailable network connections, or failed, incomplete, garbled or delayed computer or device transmission that may limit a user’s ability to participate in the Promotion. The Released Parties assume no responsibility for undeliverable emails or email addresses that cannot be successfully validated, including but not limited to those resulting from any form of active or passive email filtering by a user’s Internet service provider and/or email client or for insufficient space in user’s email account to receive email. All entrants understand and agree that all rights under Section 1542 of the Civil Code of California (“Section 1542”) and any similar law of any state, territory, or country that may be applicable with respect to the foregoing release are hereby expressly and forever waived. All participating entrants acknowledge that Section 1542 provides that: “A GENERAL RELEASE DOES NOT EXTEND TO CLAIMS WHICH THE CREDITOR OR RELEASING PARTY DOES NOT KNOW OR SUSPECT TO EXIST IN HIS OR HER FAVOR AT THE TIME OF EXECUTING THE RELEASE, WHICH, IF KNOWN BY HIM OR HER MUST HAVE MATERIALLY AFFECTED HIS OR HER SETTLEMENT WITH THE DEBTOR OR RELEASED PARTY.” The releases hereunder are intended to apply to all claims not known or suspected to exist with the intent of waiving the effect of laws requiring the intent to release future unknown claims. Sponsor reserves the right to cancel or modify the Promotion if fraud, misconduct or technical failures threaten the integrity of the Promotion; or if a computer virus, bug, or other technical problem corrupts the administration or security of the Promotion as determined by Sponsor and Administrator, in their sole discretion. In the event of termination, a notice will be posted online and all Game prizes claimed prior to that date will be fulfilled and a drawing for the Sweepstakes prizes and the unclaimed Game prizes will be conducted from among all eligible Sweepstakes Entries/Game Plays, as applicable, received prior to termination. Any damage made to the Website by an entrant will be the responsibility of the entrant and/or the authorized email account holder of the email address submitted at the time of Entry. Sponsor reserves the right to prohibit the participation of an individual if fraud or tampering is suspected or if the individual fails to comply with any requirement of participation as stated herein or with any provision in these Official Rules.

PUBLICITY: Acceptance of a prize constitutes permission for the Sponsor and its agencies to use winner’s name and/or likeness and Entry for purposes of advertising and trade without further compensation, unless prohibited by law.

DISPUTES: THIS SWEEPSTAKES IS GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES AND THE STATE OF ILLINOIS, WITHOUT RESPECT TO CONFLICT OF LAW DOCTRINES. As a condition of participating in this Sweepstakes, each entrant agrees that any and all disputes that cannot be resolved between the parties, and all causes of action arising out of or connected with this Sweepstakes, shall be resolved individually without resort to any form of class action and exclusively before a court having jurisdiction located in Cook County, Illinois. In any such dispute, under no circumstances will entrant be permitted to obtain awards for, and hereby waives all rights to claim, punitive, incidental or consequential damages, including reasonable attorneys’ fees, other than entrant’s actual out-of-pocket expenses (e.g., evidenced costs associated with entering this Sweepstakes). Entrant further waives all rights to have damages multiplied or increased.

PRIVACY: Any personal information that an entrant provides in connection with the Promotion shall be used by Sponsor and Administrator to administer this Promotion, contact entrants, and for the other purposes set forth in the Sponsor’s privacy policy located at www.cbrands.com/privacy-policy. By entering this Promotion, you agree to and accept that privacy policy. If entrant authorizes, by opting in, Sponsor may provide entrant with information relating to products, services and promotions of Sponsor and affiliates of Sponsor.