We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or

tap here to see other videos from our team.   After three years of being sidelined because of the COVID-19 pandemic, Canadore College alumni gathered with members of the community last night to celebrate this year’s inductees into the Alumni Hall of Fame.  “It is important to recognize the impact Canadore’s alumni have on the economic and social well-being of Ontario, Canada, and countries around the world,” said President and CEO George Burton.    “As a member of the Canadore Alumni myself, I know some of my longest friendships and associations began during my time as a student here.  I also know the ongoing support from the community for the President’s Club Million Dollar Fund is investing in Canadore students today so they can help to grow the economy in the future.”

This year’s inductees are Tom Chatfield, Ann Mary Hill, Marc Lepine, Mike Monaghan, Jessica Vander Joe Warmington. Linda Turcotte received the Dean McCubbin Award.    Tom Chatfield is the founder and CEO of Camber Aviation Management.    He is a 1986 graduate of the Aviation Technician and Aircraft Maintenance program.  Chatfield has more than 35 years of industry experience worldwide.   His company has successfully managed corporate aircraft completion projects ranging from Bombardier and Gulfstream business jets to Airbus and Boeing narrow-body and wide-body aircraft, according to a media release issued Saturday by Canadore.  Chatfield has worked all over the world for companies like Qatar Airways, Daimler Chrysler Aviation, and Boeing.

“He has always supported our aviation program by hiring and mentoring our students,” Canadore stated in the release.     Ann Mary Hill worked at Canadore College for 33 years. She is a 1973 graduate of the Clerical program.    In her most recent role as Senior Financial Aid Officer, Hill provided financial guidance, support, and a sympathetic ear to countless students.   She was a wonderful resource to her colleagues in financial aid and could always be counted on for valuable insight and solutions for even the most challenging circumstances.  Hill was also an incredible champion for staff morale at Canadore and was typically one of the first in line to help with student and employee events.

A firm believer in the power of engagement for continuous improvement, she also contributed to numerous committees and boards during her tenure at Canadore.   Since retiring from the College, Hill has been recognized by the North Bay and Area Social Planning Council for her involvement with various local social and housing initiatives and for improving the quality of life of so many in our community.     Wayne Kodje has the distinction of being the first graduate of Canadore College in 1973 when he accepted his diploma in graphic design.     In 1975, Kodje received a Bachelor of Fine Arts degree from the Nova Scotia College of Art and Design (NSCAD) and eventually went on to become an art teacher as well as the principal of three Indigenous schools.

Kodje retired in 2010 and has since been working as a visual artist, with exhibits at various shows and galleries in the Toronto area and across Ontario.     Marc Lepine is an award-winning chef, working in kitchens from Toronto and Muskoka to Italy, France, and Chicago.   He is a 1997 graduate of the culinary management program.    In 1997, Lepine and his classmates had the once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to prepare a luncheon for Queen Elizabeth II during her royal visit to North Bay.    In 2008, Lepine opened Atelier, a restaurant in Ottawa that was named one of Canada’s best new restaurants by enRoute Magazine.   In 2018, Lepine was invited to the inaugural episode of Iron Chef Canada, he released his first cookbook, and he was named “Canada’s Most Innovative Chef” by Canada’s 100 Best magazine.

Most recently, Lepine opened THRU, an interactive, six-person private dining experience on Atelier’s second floor.     Mike Monaghan is currently the Morning Show host and Operations Manager at North Bay’s Moose 106.3 radio station.   He is a 1988 graduate of Canadore’s Broadcasting Radio program.  Monaghan left North Bay for a short time to work in some of Canada’s largest radio markets before returning to his hometown.  “He is one of the most recognized radio personalities in North Bay and is also a selfless volunteer and fundraiser who gives freely of his time and talents to more than 100 events in the community every year,” according to Canadore.   Monaghan established “Monaghan’s Hometown Hero” awards to publicly recognize community members who make North Bay a great place to live, as well as the Monaghan and Furry Friends Scramble, a fundraiser with the North Bay and District Humane Society.

Monaghan has also taught at Canadore College and made time to participate on numerous community boards and committees including the Nipissing Mental Health Housing and Support Services of North Bay (now the Canadian Mental Health Association, North Bay) and Canadore College’s Alumni Board.      Jessica Vander Kooij has immersed herself in the world of television production, holding positions ranging from floor director to executive producer on Canadian television. She is a 2002 graduate of the Television and Video Production program.    Vander Kooij has worked on award-winning shows like The Property Brothers and as an  assistant director on the Juno Awards.

As executive producer with the Property Brothers, Vander Kooij shared the stage with brothers Jonathan and Drew Scott to receive the prestigious Canadian Screen Award from the Academy of Canadian Cinema and Television for Best Lifestyle Program or Series.  Vander Kooij is currently the Series Creative and Post Producer with Be Collective Media, a home for contemporary creators, producers, directors, and emerging cultural storytellers across all genres.     Joe Warmington is currently a city news columnist for Postmedia News and is known by many as the Night Scrawler from the Toronto Sun.   He is a 1986 graduate of the Print Journalism program.    Warmington has covered international news including 9/11 in 2001, the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting, the Boston Marathon bombing, and Hurricane Katrina.

Warmington has been on the ground for wars in the Balkans, the Middle East, the Persian Gulf, and Afghanistan.    Warmington is most proud of the work he’s done covering local stories from police and politicians to athletes and the homeless.        Linda Turcotte is a lifelong advocate for women in sport and fitness.   She is a 1981 graduate of the Recreation Leadership Program.  Turcotte carried her passion for sport throughout her career at Canadore College, beginning as a gym technician and retiring as director of student services.  She helped reshape varsity programming, renew the gymnasium and fitness facilities, and guide the evolution of the Canadore Kittens brand into the Canadore Panthers.  She provided invaluable mentorship and guidance to students and staff throughout her 34 years at Canadore.  Turcotte was twice honoured as the Canadore Athletics Female Athlete of the Year and was inducted into the OCAA Hall of Fame in 2012 as a member of the Women’s Hockey All-Millennium team.

This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.