COLUMN - Eamonn Tiernan is the NRL Editor at foxsports.com.au and writes Extra Time fortnightly.

Manly coach Anthony Seibold won’t stand in the way of his assistant Shane Flanagan if an NRL head coach role becomes available.

Anthony Griffin is a dead man walking at the Dragons and there’s no shortage of potential replacements, with the board meeting and discussing candidates today.

Flanagan has made no secret of his desire to be a head coach again and he’s on a shortlist of names that St George Illawarra are considering for 2024.

Foxsports.com.au asked Seibold if Flanagan would be released early from the three-year contract he signed in November, to take up a head coach gig.

Watch every game of every round of the 2023 NRL Telstra Premiership Season LIVE on Kayo Sports. New to Kayo? Start your free trial now >

“I would have to have a conversation with Flanno as it’s not something we’ve discussed, but yes I would like any of my coaches to get a head coaching opportunity if that is something they wanted to pursue,” Seibold said.

Flanagan famously guided Cronulla to their only premiership in 2016 just two years after being banned for the 2014 season over his role in the club’s supplements scandal.

The 57-year-old coach was deregistered in 2018 after the NRL found he’d violated the conditions of his 2014 ban.

There are some Dragons board members who remain put off by Flanagan’s past and former chief executive Peter Doust could prove the sticking point as head coach appointments at the club must be unanimous.

But ask anyone who has played under Flanagan and they’ll vouch for his ability to coach, with the veteran known for his superb man-management skills.

Considering that since 2011, NRL clubs have parted ways with coaches 45 times at an average of almost four per season - it’s likely just a matter of time before Flanagan is given another opportunity.

Ricky Stuart loves Jarrod Croker like a son but there won’t be any special treatment for the Canberra legend on his road to 300 games.

Croker had a player option in his favour for next year but foxsports.com.au can confirm he won’t get to trigger it due to a games played clause in his contract.

The 32-year-old has played just three NRL games since the end of 2021 due to form and a horror injury run, which saw him undergo multiple knee and shoulder surgeries.

Those who attended Croker’s press conference in 2020 when the then 29-year-old signed a lucrative four-year extension believed it was the safest of bets.

The classy centre had missed just a handful of games since debuting for the Raiders in 2009 and looked a certainty to pass Hazem El Masri and Cameron Smith to become the NRL’s all-time points scorer.

But since the end of the 2020 season, Croker has played just 15 of 57 NRL games and it has cost him his 2024 option.

Croker’s management have confirmed to foxsports.com.au that his limited action over the past two and half years means he’s going to fall well short of the games required to trigger the lucrative final year of his deal.

REBUILD: How Ciraldo-Gould partnership plans to return Bulldogs to title contenders

Croker started this season in reserve grade but injuries saw him return two weeks ago when he was one of Canberra’s best as they upset the top-of-the-table Broncos.

The veteran wasn’t as impressive last weekend against the Dragons - his 293rd NRL game - but should hold his spot after the bye with Nick Cotric (hamstring) facing a sideline stint.

However, Stuart won’t be handing out appearances to Canberra’s favourite son - with Croker told he’ll only be picked on merit - and the Raiders legend wouldn’t want it any other way.

If he reaches the 300-game milestone before his 15-year career at the club comes to an end this season, it’ll be because he earned selection each week.

Croker still harbours ambitions of playing his way into one more contract - albeit on a significant pay cut to his current $700,000 per season deal - but it’ll only be at Canberra.

In the likely event that Stuart has to sit Croker down for a tough love chat to tell him his playing days at the club are over, it’s understood he’ll retire instead of heading to the Super League.

Roosters backrower Angus Crichton is on track for a potential NRL return on Anzac Day following his tough summer.

In February, Crichton’s family went public with his bipolar disorder diagnosis which saw the Kangaroos and Blues backrower miss the opening six weeks of the season while seeking professional help.

Crichton comes from a great family and his inner circle have been with him every step of the way, with a large contingent sitting in the stands for his comeback match in NSW Cup last weekend.

It was his first game since playing for Australia in the World Cup final last November when the Kangaroos beat Samoa to lift the trophy.

Those nearest and dearest to Crichton know he’s still at the beginning of a lifelong journey with bipolar and are hesitant to count their chickens on his recovery just yet.

The 27-year-old’s return to the playing field last weekend came two months after his father Charlie released a statement on behalf of the family.

“I can confirm that Angus is under appropriate professional support and treatment for medically diagnosed bipolar disorder, which he has been dealing with for some time,” the statement read.

“He is fully supported by his family, his management and the Sydney Roosters club as he works towards recovery.”

Sitting next to Charlie on the plane to the World Cup in England last November it was immediately clear to see where Angus gets his country boy modesty.

‘COPY THE AFL’: Buzz‘s big golden point idea shot down in heated 360 debate

‘PEEVED’: Why brutal Blues snub may have triggered Wighton’s Origin bombshell

Covering the Kangaroos at the World Cup was a unique experience in many ways but one interaction with Crichton left the biggest impression.

Crichton was asked his thoughts on Indigenous All Stars coach Ron Griffiths floating the idea of his side competing at the 2025 World Cup.

The classy forward gave an articulate response emphasising the concept would only cause an unnecessary divide.

After the press conference, Crichton asked the print journalists to make sure our subeditors didn’t misconstrued his words in the headline.

Crichton - who has worked with charities in Indigenous communities - received widespread support for his comments and then after the final he spoke again after the cameras had stopped rolling.

Just minutes after winning the World Cup and deep inside the tunnels of Old Trafford, Crichton found it in himself to say thank you for how the story was written.

It was bloody impressive from a young man - very few footy players would have said anything, let alone having the presence of mind to do so just after winning a World Cup.

Foxsports.com.au touched base with Charlie this week but the family aren’t ready to speak publicly again just yet, and fair enough.

Even if Crichton doesn’t play Anzac Day it’s now a matter of when, not if, he returns to the NRL which wasn’t the case at the start of the season.

When he does it’ll be an awesome sight and you’ll struggle to find a person in rugby league who won’t be cheering him on.

“I think if he comes back and has two or three games under his belt, I’ve got no doubt Freddy will consider him for the Blues,” Roosters premiership winner Bryan Fletcher told foxsports.com.au.

“He was Australia’s starting second rower in the World Cup and we’re a little bit light on in the backrow with Liam Martin being ruled out.”

Get all the latest NRL news, highlights and analysis delivered straight to your inbox with Fox Sports Sportmail. Sign up now!!