The Giants signed Daniel Jones to a monster four-year, $160 million contract this offseason, affirming his status as the face of the franchise.

The next step for the Giants: protect their franchise player. The Giants offensive line has been their Achilles' heel for the last decade. It is time to finally fix that.

Andrew Thomas and Evan Neal are solidified as the tackles of the future in New York, but nothing is settled in the interior. The Giants badly need a center, especially with the departures of Nick Gates and Jon Feliciano. Here are three options to fill that void.

Schmitz is the best interior offensive line prospect in next week's draft. In 2022, PFF graded the Minnesota Golden Gopher as the top center in the country. He was also graded as the best run-blocking center in college football.

The 24-year-old is the ultimate plug-and-play draft pick. He is an immediate starting NFL center. Over the course of the last three seasons, Schmitz has allowed just three hits and three sacks, despite playing 2,026 offensive snaps.

He is flying up draft boards. The Giants may have to draft him in the first round if they want him.

The Ohio State Buckeyes are going to have both of their starting tackles drafted in the first two rounds next week. Their starting center, Wypler, will also come off the board early.

Wypler, a Montvale, New Jersey, native, stands a 6-foot-3, 303 pounds. Wypler has played a lot of college football, starting 13 games in each season. As a Big Ten center, Wypler knows what is like to play against big, physical dudes.

Wypler was graded by PFF as the fifth-best center in college football last season. Similar to Schmitz, he could start from Day 1.

Unlike Wypler and Schmitz, Oluwatimi will be available in the middle rounds of the draft.

The center played three years at Virginia before transferring to Michigan for the 2022 season. He broke out in 2022 and gave up zero sacks.

Oluwatimi won the Remington Trophy, an award to the best center in college football and also won the Outland Trophy, an award given to the best interior offensive line in college football.

The center is extremely intelligent, graduating from Virginia in three years with an Economics degree. He would fit in perfectly on the Giants.