VIRGIN Media star Muireann O'Connell has revealed she had a cosmetic procedure and feels less "dead".

The presenter revealed she recently had some work done as she was beginning to look tired.

Muireann took to her Instagram stories to share that she had a small bit of Botox to reduce the appearance of crows feet on her eyes.

On her stories the Ireland AM presenter shared a snap with her doctor.

She wrote: "Full disclosure because I always get asked, had me first bit of Botox.

"Last week I went to see @drcldagh_ in @beaconfaceanddermatology to sort out the crows feet.

"They've gotten so bad over the past 2 years with the mornings and not sleeping so I just decided to do something about it."

Muireann then posted a video showing off the smooth skin beside her eyes.

In the video she said: "So I just had it here and I had it here."

The 39-year-old revealed she had tried to get Botox beofre but was advised she didn't need it.

She said: "I went into a consultation with the Beacon, I think it was two years ago, and I was like 'give me some Botox'.

"And they were like 'nope you do not need it you're not getting it'.

"And this time when I went in Clodagh was like 'you are getting the tiniest amount' and I suggested other areas and she said 'absolutely not', which i loved.

"Just being really really honest with you when you go into them and I wanted to be honest with you."

She added: "I feel just a little less dead, a little bit more awake in the morning - and that's it."

Recently, Muireann wowed fans in a summery high street look on Ireland AM.

The presenter was back on air this morning alongside her usual co-presenters Tommy Bowe and Alan Hughes.

After the show Muireann took to social media to show off her fabulous outfit.

The host looked incredible in a pair of croped wide leg white jeans, a tan coloured top and a tan blazer.

She paired the summery look with a pair of beige pointed heels and wore her hair straightened.

She captioned the post: "I finally scraped myself out of the skinnies for the first time in a decade. #ootd."

The Limerick native then revealed most of her outfit was from popular high street store Zara.

Fans were obsessed with the neutral look and many shared their compliments in the comments.