What do these Australians have in common? Steve Smith, Marnus Labuschagne, Marcus Harris, Cameron Bancroft, Sean Abbott, Peter Handscomb and Lance Morris?

They are all candidates to play in this year’s Ashes, especially if Australia keep their options open, as expected, and name their squad this week for only the first two Tests.

And all of them will gain invaluable practice in English conditions by spending at least part of April and May playing county cricket with the Dukes ball. It cannot be right.

Yes, I have listened to the counter argument made most eloquently by new Sussex coach Paul Farbrace who has signed the most high-profile of those Aussies in Smith for three matches next month.

Farbrace wants to instil a winning mentality in a young and promising group of home-grown players who have done little other than lose in red-ball cricket for the last two years.

He feels Smith, still one of the best batsmen in the world, will help the development of those players and is actually doing English cricket ‘a massive favour’ in heading to Hove.

And Farbrace, one of the best men in English cricket, had an immediate impact on the south-coast when Sussex won their first County Championship match of the season in thrilling style against fancied division two rivals Durham.

No-one is doubting Farbrace’s passion for England, as a former assistant coach of the national side, and the domestic game. Nor his sincerity when he echoed his step-son Ollie Robinson’s words by saying he wanted to give the Aussies ‘a good hiding’ this year.

But there seems little in this for Smith other than just using Sussex to limber up both for the Ashes and the World Test Championship final against India that precedes it.

Perhaps the signing of most concern is the arrival of the uncapped 25-year-old from Western Australia in Morris at Northants. He is a bowler of real pace and potential who can only learn by playing in the Championship and can offer little in return to Northants players in just three matches other than to try and help them win.

All of which reminds me of the words of Trevor Bayliss when he was England coach. ‘Mate, you won’t see Aussie State sides signing English players in Ashes years.’

That just about sums it up. And as with so many things the wise old owl Bayliss was right.

Another list — Alex Hales, David Willey, Sam Billings and Liam Dawson. All England white-ball players and all believed to have turned down ODIs in South Africa or Bangladesh this year to play franchise cricket.

It was not too long ago this would have been a huge deal, but managing director Rob Key and coach Brendon McCullum take a pragmatic view of the franchise world with the ‘if you can’t beat them, work with them’ philosophy.

Yet the threat to international cricket is huge and the biggest game changer may be Major League Cricket in Dallas this July.

Prepare for it to quickly make big offers in peak summer to high-profile England players.

So it was reassuring to hear ECB chief Richard Gould promise multi-year contracts and bigger fees for England players to try and match franchise spending power.

International cricket has to retain its primacy, otherwise we will all be watching IPL-run teams in various leagues chopping and changing players with little identity and very little meaning.

Do not be alarmed is the message from England over the absence of Jofra Archer from the last two Mumbai Indians matches in the IPL, having reported discomfort in the elbow that required two operations.

But it has to be a concern, not only in the short-term with Archer’s ability to bowl in the Ashes, but also his long-term red ball future.

Fingers firmly crossed that England are right when they say he is missing just as a precaution.