I am often thanked by my fellow Americans for my military service. Don’t misunderstand me, I appreciate it! I remember after I returned home from Vietnam few of my countrymen wanted to look at me, much less thank me for my service. I was thankful at the change I saw across America after the attacks carried out by our enemies on 9-11-2001. When I landed at DFW for my mid-tour leave from Afghanistan (yes, I fought in both Vietnam and Afghanistan), the welcome we received almost overwhelmed me! What a welcome change!

But have we now forgotten our great warriors who are now being attacked and abused by our president and those in charge of our Pentagon? Do you know that thousands of our service members gave their everything serving tour after tour in combat to defend our freedoms (yours and theirs), your choices, your way of life in America, but today, those seasoned defenders of our freedoms are being harassed, punished, and driven out of service before their retirements because they are exercising their own constitutional and religious rights to refuse mandatory injection of a proved dangerous and ineffective experimental injection against their consent?

That’s right! Today, when it is more important than ever that we retain our combat experienced warriors in service, our own federal government has joined America’s enemies, including our federal courts, and are attacking our most loyal citizens and defenders of America in their war to overthrow our Constitution!

If you truly support our currently serving warriors who are refusing to submit to this illegal mandate, trying to make them surrender their health and wellness to the political tyrants who hold their futures and America’s freedoms in contempt because our heroes won’t let them cancel their lives and careers, will you now demand that our federal government and courts vacate these illegal mandates and restore them all to duty without any possibility of derogatory action against them for exercising their constitutional and religious rights as Americans?

Our men and women in uniform are giving their all for you! What are you actually doing for them? Demand now that Biden and his Pentagon, anti-American, anti-Constitution tyrants, stop persecuting our sons and daughters for exercising the right they fought for us to keep! Fire Biden and all Democrats and Uniparty traitors! Do it every chance you get! Fight for those who have fought for you! Don’t just say it; do it!