THE wait is over as Taco Bell has brought back its popular Nacho Fries, but with some help.

Starting April 13, the taco chain is collaborating with sauce giant Yellowbird Hot Sauce.

Yellowbird is based in Austin, Texas, and is famous for using homegrown, flavorful, and premium ingredients.

Fans can pile on flavor and spice with the limited-time offering of Yellowbird Nacho Fries.

This will be a new take on the old classic Nacho Fries which includes a limited edition Spicy Habanero Ranch sauce.

Plus, customers can add the sauce to any menu item for two weeks or while supplies last.

The mashup features crispy, slim-cut potato fries loaded with nacho cheese sauce, topped with steak, and the Spicy Habanero Ranch for just $4.99.

Just note that all products and prices could vary based on store and availability.

"This partnership is a testament to both the growing popularity of Yellowbird and Taco Bell's commitment to taking risks and offering unique and exciting menu items for their customers,” said George Milton, chief executive officer of Yellowbird.

The Spicy Habanero Ranch sauce is a fruity, acidic hot sauce that adds the perfect blend of spice.

Fans are encouraged to slather it onto any Taco Bell menu item as flavors will be instantly intensified.

Fans who order through the Taco Bell app can add the Spicy Habanero Ranch sauce to any item for only $1 - but only for a limited time.

While Yellowbird Nacho Fries will be available for two weeks, the original Nacho Fries will stay on menus where customers can buy them for $1.99.

For the hungrier fans, try ordering the Deluxe Cravings Box with Nacho Fries, the Chicken Chalupa Supreme, Beefy 5-Layer Burrito, Doritos Locos Taco, and a medium drink for $8.49.

Taco Bell is about to make some major changes in order to offer increased options and even more customer convenience.

The fast food joint has already redesigned the drive-thru experience with a new model called Taco Bell Defy.

Changes were made to a location in Brooklyn Park, Minnesota which added four lanes.

The futuristic layout includes digital check-in screens for mobile orders and two-way audio and video services so customers can easily communicate with employees.

The model utilized a vertical lift to deliver food from the second-floor window straight down to the cars below.

Taco Bell will start unveiling this updated design to stores across the nation soon.

The taco joint is making four changes this year and customers are getting excited.

Plus, Taco Bell has brought back a popular discontinued item after customers begged.