DIXON, KENTUCKY: '1000-lb Sisters' star Amy Slaton is in the midst of a messier divorce with her estranged husband, Michael Halterman. The reality star filed for a protective order from Michael after an explosive feud that forced Amy to leave her Kentucky home, which she shared with her estranged husband.

However, Amy has now finally moved back into her Kentucky home with her two sons, Gage and Glenn, whom the TLC star shares with Michael. '1000-lb Sisters' star recently shared a series of videos on her social media flaunting her adorable kids' dance and actions.

'He hits too hard': 1000-lb Sisters' Amy Slaton accuses ex Michael Halterman of 'mistreating' children

Amy recently shared a series of adorable videos of her sons playing, dancing and singing in the property she seemingly shared with her former husband, 40, prior to their separation. The video captured Gage, one, and five-month-old Glenn playing with their toys on the floor of Amy's Kentucky abode. She penned in the caption, "Brothers playing together." However, another video showed Amy singing the nursery rhyme 'If You're Happy and You Know It' (Clap Your Hands). However, Gage flaunts his cute dance moves to the rhythm. She captioned the clip, "Gage showing off his dance skills." Gage also sang along with his mother, clapped his little hands, and stomped his feet as Amy instructed him to do so. Meanwhile, Glenn was shown shuffling across the home's wood-planked floors behind his brother as Gage crawled into the kitchen. Another video captured Gage getting frustrated with his younger sibling as Glenn reached for the toy train car the older brother was playing with.

However, Amy's fans took to the comment section and social media users showered love and advice on the reality star. A TikTok user joked, "That sibling rivalry for real." Another fan advised, "Amy this is when you are supposed to say, 'Gage you need to share with your brother.'" Another follower said, "I love seeing videos. of the boys. Put y'all in them too and make them longer." "He like Michael so he won’t understand but try," suggested another fan. Meanwhile, another fan quipped, "They're making some Cowboys sounds ain't them fellas."

After an explosive fight with her estranged husband, Amy moved out from her Kentucky home and was living with her sister Tammy Slaton. However, Amy is now returned to a duplex located in Dixon, Kentucky, amid ongoing divorce procedures. She purchased the abode for her family, including her now-estranged husband Michael Halterman and their sons, Gage and Glenn. Amy and Michael purchased the house at $37k last year in July. Amy's Kentucky house is only a 30-minutes drive away from Tammy's place. It is a 1,584-square-foot house with a red brick exterior and wooden flooring. Fans got a glimpse of Amy's home during an episode of '1000-lb Sisters'. The place was built in the '60s and had three-bedroom and a big backyard containing plenty of space to play. Further, it has a stained wooden dining table that matched the home's dark hardwood floor which was littered with toys, shoes, and other assorted items.

Michael and Amy moved to court to end their marriage in March 2023. However, Michael has recently asked the court to issue a civil restraining order. According to the court documents, a civil restraining order will keep Amy and Michael '500 feet from one another at all times' and will allow them to stay '500 feet from the residence of the other party.' Michael also wanted to add a restriction preventing Amy and Michael from making 'any public statements or social media postings concerning this litigation or one another.' However, if the Kentucky court grants the order, then the estranged couple will only be allowed to communicate through a court-approved app or counsel.

This article contains remarks made on the Internet by individuals and organizations. MEAWW cannot confirm them independently and does not support the claims or opinions being made online.