Since debuting five years ago, Succession has earned 48 Emmy nominations and 13 wins.

But now fans and critics alike believe the show is tipped for even more Emmy glory after the latest shocking episode.

Fans have been flooding Twitter with calls to nominate the lead cast after watching Connor's Wedding, the latest episode which saw media mogul Logan Roy (Brian Cox) abruptly pass away on an airplane.

'Apologies to every show competing against SUCCESSION in literally any category at this year's Emmys lol,' one fan tweeted.

'Everyone who works on succession claimed their emmy tonight just so you all know,' another posted.

'Literally everyone in this #Succession episode deserves an Emmy. Every single performance is real and raw and consistent with who these characters are,' one fan remarked.

One fan even claimed the legendary Red Wedding episode from Game Of Thrones paled in comparison to Connor's Wedding.

'Today’s episode of Succession will go down as one of the best television episodes of all time,' another fan posted. 'Red wedding who? Also give the whole Roy family Emmy’s. Absolutely incredible.'

Even actress Rachel Zegler weighed in, writing: 'Everyone who works on Succession claimed their emmy tonight just so you all know.

Sarah Snook, in particular, was praised by fans, with even Kevin Fallon of The Daily Beast moved by her performance.

'This is the line that absolutely gutted me, especially as delivered by Snook, who, the internet decreed absolutely must win an Emmy for her performance,' he wrote.

One fan cited the moment Shiv Roy (Snook) tearfully spoke to her father over the phone as they attempted to revive him on the plane.

'The way Sarah Snook engraved her name into the Emmy with this scene,' one fan tweeted.

'SARAH SNOOK THE EMMY IS YOURS,' one wrote with a GIF of Oprah Winfrey running over hot coals with Tony Robbin's encouragement.

'all i can say is that they’d better start melting down all the current 2023 emmy statues and get to work on making one great big giant f**king jumbo emmy for sarah snook to say sorry for all the years they’ve neglected to reward her incomparably brilliant work on succession,' another wrote, along with a photo of a person carrying a massive Emmy statue labelled 'Sarah Snook's giant f**king Emmy.'

Variety referred to Cox as a 'presumed Emmy contender' as they postulated how the cast could be nominated for an award.

'If you watched Sunday night’s dramatic third episode of this season’s "Succession," you bore witness to the death of billionaire CEO Logan Roy, portrayed by two-time lead actor nominee and presumed 2023 Emmy contender Brian Cox,' they wrote.

In light of the latest episode, the outlet updated their list of Emmy nominee predictions. The show received numerous 'nominations' across a slew of categories, with acting nods going to Jeremy Strong, Kieran Culkin, Cox, and Snook.

The Wrap also believes the show will likely receive more Emmy nods: 'Assuming that "Succession" stays in the good graces of Emmy voters — and there’s no reason to suspect otherwise, particularly without the juggernaut that was "Squid Game" to serve as spoiler — it seems safe to assume another passel of the show’s performers will again score nominations.'