I was dismayed, but not surprised, to see that our boy Liel Abada was linked with another club yesterday. This is what happens on the slow news days. All manner of guff makes its way into the public sphere.

And guff is exactly all those reports were.

Read what these appallingly weak reports were saying. Ajax are “positioning themselves to be in the hunt” for Abada in the summer. Tell me something; what in God’s name does that mean?

That’s doesn’t even come up to the level of third hand gossip.

And yet that managed to generate headlines in spite of having all the substance of a cold fart.

It should be taken about as seriously as Jeremy Kyle.

It’s a joke that stuff like this – a collection of words joined together but which actually amount to nothing at all when you add them up – can be considered worthy of so many acres of coverage that if you had to cut down trees for it global warming would be ten times worse.

They are “positioning themselves to be in the hunt” for God’s sake?

In a lifetime studying politicians and listening to the empty words that come out of their mouths I can tell you that any one of them would be proud of that meaningless babble, and especially so if it got them so much room in the mainstream media.

I find it absolutely astonishing how quickly this stuff spreads, even when there is absolutely nothing to it. Do you see a quote in there? Do you see any concrete information? Do you see any sign that anyone has even put a shred of effort into running that down?

Is there a single fact in there? Is there an offer on the table? No, there’s not. They are “positioning” to make one, whatever that means. Is there some tactical element to contacting Celtic and asking if the player is for sale? Or to submitting a written bid?

Abada is a great player and would be a fine signing for any club.

But right now he’s a Celtic player, and if they want him they’re going to have to pay a huge sum of money.

Ajax might be a bit wary of doing that considering the last player they bought from this league … Abada is a better player, by far, than Bassey but I would not bet on them doing more than “positioning themselves.”

The whole story is nonsense.