Ian Perry found out he had Parkinson's disease while fixing the heating at work

Ian Perry found out he had Parkinson's disease while fixing the heating at work

A dad discovered he had a disease while fixing the heating at work.

Six years ago Ian Perry was working at The Walton Centre in Fazakerley as a maintenance manager when he was asked to fix the heating in the outpatients department. While he was working to solve the problem, a neurologist approached him and asked if he had Parkinson's disease.

At first, Ian did not believe the doctor but after a short conversation, he was convinced to go home and see his GP. Ian said that while he was sitting alone he still thought the doctor had been speaking to "someone else."

READ MORE: Disgust at the way Pete Price was treated at the Grand National

Ian from Formby said: "He knew by my facial expression and by the way I was walking, it just left me stunned I could not get my head around what he was telling me. I just thought this could not be happening to me.

"I was due to retire soon and I told my wife who was more shocked than me. I would relive that conversation with the doctor over in my head."

Ian said that since his diagnosis the condition has got slightly worse but tries his best to fight off the effects of the disease through exercise. Shortly after the diagnosis, Ian said he would think about the disease "every morning" and thought his life had changed forever.

However, in 2021 Ian’s friends had seen the Parkinson’s England football team was having a training session and encouraged him to go along. He joined the Northern Lights football team, which consists of people with Parkinson’s Disease, and takes part in walking football matches across the country.

Ian, 65, said: “It was the first time in four years I had met other people with Parkinson’s Disease. It was such a relief to see others there to play football. My wife said I came back a different person.

“While I was playing for the team, I took part in trials to play for the England team and I got in It feels like I’m living the dream, the camaraderie is great, and at the end of last year, I played in my first international match in Belfast.

“You can achieve so much, even if you have Parkinson’s Disease. The diagnosis can rob you of your ambitions but you can't let it change your life.

For more information on The Walton Centre, click here.