Compiled by MAHADHIR MONIHULDIN, C. ARUNO and A. ARAVINTHAN

A WOMAN in Hong Kong caused a stir in her neighbourhood after she supposedly took her pet fish out for a walk, China Press reported.

She was seen pushing a pram with a fish bowl on its seat at Lohas Park in Tseung Kwan O.

There was a red fish inside the fish bowl.

Photos of the peculiar scene went viral on the neighbourhood’s Facebook group with many speculating that the woman was taking her fish out to enjoy some sunshine.

However, a netizen put an end to such talk.

According to the person who had approached the woman, the fish was not a pet but was meant to be eaten.

“I asked the pram-pushing lady. She said she wanted to get a fish that was fresh. So she decided to bring a fish bowl (to the market),” the netizen wrote.

> Despite failing to bag the awards for Best Screenplay and Best New Director at the Hong Kong Film Award, Malaysian filmmaker Lau Kok Rui was not disappointed at all, Sin Chew Daily reported.

Instead, he said he was thrilled that the star of his film, 10-year-old Sahal Zaman, clinched the Best New Performer award.

“I am very happy that Sahal won. I met him at a community centre and decided to train him. I saw him slowly becoming a competent actor. Watching him walk up the stage to receive the trophy without a hint of stage fright made me feel proud of him,” he said.

Lau’s first feature film, The Sunny Side Of The Street, was nominated in four categories at the Hong Kong Film Award held on Sunday, namely Best Screenplay, Best New Director, Best Actor and Best New Performer.

Lau, 33, said that even though they won only one out of the four awards, he was proud that an actor from his film was presented the award by Oscar winner Michelle Yeoh.

Sahal made history that night for being the first south Asian actor to be nominated and won at the Hong Kong Film Award.

The Sunny Side Of The Street centres on a friendship between a taxi driver and a Pakistani refugee boy. Last year, Lau won in the Best New Director and Best Original Screenplay categories at the Golden Horse Awards, which is known as the Taiwan’s Oscars.

The above articles are compiled from the vernacular newspapers (Bahasa Malaysia, Chinese and Tamil dailies). As such, stories are grouped according to the respective language/medium. Where a paragraph begins with a >, it denotes a separate news item.