At EQT Ventures, we’re partnering with ambitious and determined founders across Europe and the US to build the next Generation Defining Companies. A region we’re rapidly growing our local presence in is DACH, as of last year the third largest ecosystem in Europe by venture funding raised. As we expand our team of ex-founders and operators we are better equipped than ever to support DACH’S thriving founder pool, providing both the capital and deep sectoral expertise needed to help write their success stories.

Today, we’re delighted to welcome Shivram Ayyagari as the newest addition to our rapidly growing DACH team.

Based in Berlin, Shivram brings a wealth of experience as a founder and CEO across B2B SaaS, foodtech, logistics and marketplaces. At EQT Ventures, Shivram will be scouting out a broad range of investment opportunities across the DACH ecosystem, helping us find and back more and more of the region’s most promising founders.

Prior to joining EQT Ventures, Shivram co-founded and led Smunch, a B2B cloud canteen company acquired by Delivery Hero. Prior to that, he led the international expansion of Delivery Hero. The first half of his career was in Venture Capital across India and Asia-Pacific, investing across a wide range of industries like retail/e-commerce, education, healthcare, real-estate and more.

“I started my career in Venture Capital,” says Shivram. “Five years in, I decided that operational experience would make me a better investor. That led to an incredibly fulfilling entrepreneurial journey over the next ten years.”

“Now with battle scars from being a founder and the empathy for their experiences, I am excited to be back on the investment side. Getting to do this with colleagues who are not only former founders and operators, but are taking a strong data-driven approach to investments, is a privilege. I am excited to support ambitious entrepreneurs on their mission to make a dent in the world.”

Doreen Huber, Partner at EQT Ventures in Berlin is looking forward to seeing the impact of Shivram’s arrival. “Shivram brings a unique perspective to the team, having gained extensive experience as both an investor and an entrepreneur,” says Doreen. “I’m confident that this background, coupled with his ability to cover a broad range of sectors, will help us connect with and nourish the DACH tech community better than ever before.”

EQT Ventures has teams on the ground in five cities worldwide: Berlin, Stockholm, Paris, London, and San Francisco. With Shivram on board, we strengthen our ‘locals with locals’ approach to the German ecosystem, providing the region’s founders with the radical support and advice needed to fast-track their ideas to scale.

Welcome to the team, Shivram!