Click here to view original web page at finance.yahoo.com

Hoping to repeat his past success with NFTs, former President Donald Trump has launched a second collection of digital trading cards, with tens of thousands of new collectibles now available for mint. But prices for the controversial politician’s original NFT set have quickly plummeted now that the total supply has more than doubled.

The second series of Trump Digital Trading Cards spans a total of 47,000 NFTs minted on Polygon, an Ethereum sidechain network, with 1,000 of the NFTs held back by the developer. Each sells for $99, as with the original December 2022 drop, with some cards featuring Trump’s digital signature.

Trump commented on the surprise launch via his Truth Social network, leaning into familiar themes about “fake news” and what he sees as his generosity towards fans.

“I hope everyone notices, [and] I’m sure the Fake News won’t, that I’m leaving the price of the Trading Cards the same as last time, even though they are selling for MANY TIMES MORE (It’s called the MARKET!),” he wrote, “[and] sold out almost immediately, because I want my fans [and] supporters to make money, [and] have fun doing it.

“I could have raised the price MUCH HIGHER, [and] I believe it still would have sold well, with a lot more money coming to me, but I didn’t choose to do so. I WILL BE GIVEN NO ‘NICE GUY’ CREDIT?”

This time around, Trump’s team isn’t offering up as many ancillary benefits, but anyone who purchases 47 of the NFT trading cards will apparently receive a ticket to a gala dinner with Trump at his Mar-a-Lago golf club in Florida. For the Series 1 launch, buyers also received potential benefits like Zoom calls with Trump or an in-person meet-and-greet.

The Series 2 set builds on the theme of the original set, which featured Trump depicted as a superhero, astronaut, cowboy, and in other larger-than-life settings. This time around, the NFT artwork includes Trump carrying a championship pro wrestling belt, as a hunter, and wearing firefighting gear.