The press is demanding answers from White House Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre.

She’s trying to cover up one ugly truth about Joe Biden.

And a reporter asked Karine Jean-Pierre one important question that left her in panic.

President Joe Bide has always been a gaffe-prone politician known for frequently sticking his foot in his mouth.

The 2020 Presidential campaign exposed Biden’s severe mental decline with his confusion and an increasing number of blunders during his rare public interactions.

His handlers were able to use the pandemic as cover to limit his appearances on the campaign trail.

After occupying the White House, the Biden regime has carefully controlled his public appearances and limited his interaction with the press.

The President’s reluctance to hold press conferences is causing the usually Biden-friendly White House press corps to grumble.

White House Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre was asked if the regime is trying to protect Biden from the press.

Reporters peppered Jean-Pierre with questions about why the President had no scheduled press conferences, including during his planned visit to Ireland.

“Is the administration trying to protect the president from our questions?” a reporter asked Jean-Pierre. “Please answer that question.”

The reporter pressed Jean-Pierre about Biden ducking the press.

“So why the lack of any interaction in a formal setting, to have a press conference?” the reporter asked.

Jean-Pierre proceeded to ignore the reporter’s question and tried to credit Biden for taking questions that the press has to shout at him during his infrequent public appearances that he usually ignores.

When Biden walks by a group of reporters he has no choice but to listen to the questions they shout at him.

“I’ll say this. It is also unprecedented that the President takes as many shouted questions as this President has, and he has,” Jean-Pierre responded.

The press being forced to shout questions at Biden isn’t an explanation why he’s refusing to hold formal press conferences.

Jean-Pierre claimed that Biden had taken questions from the press “many times.”

“I hear you on the press conference, on a formal press conference. We get this probably every couple of months when you guys ask us about a formal press conference. I don’t have anything to share with all of you at this time, and I’ll just leave it there,” Jean-Pierre said before changing the subject.

Biden’s reluctance to engage the press is drawing suspicion from the reporters who cover him.

The few occasions that Biden had held a formal press conference, he’s accidentally revealed that White House officials told him which reporters to call on ahead of time to answer pre-approved questions.

He can’t even handle having softball questions lobbed at him from a friendly White House press corps.

During his first year in office, Biden conducted fewer media interviews than the six Presidents who came before him.

Joe Biden’s declining mental state is a question he won’t be able to hide from during the upcoming Presidential campaign.

Renewed Right will keep you up-to-date on any new developments in this ongoing story.