Microvast (NASDAQ:MVST – Get Rating) is one of 62 public companies in the “Miscellaneous electrical machinery, equipment, & supplies” industry, but how does it weigh in compared to its competitors? We will compare Microvast to similar companies based on the strength of its analyst recommendations, institutional ownership, dividends, earnings, valuation, profitability and risk.

This table compares Microvast and its competitors revenue, earnings per share and valuation.

Microvast’s competitors have higher revenue and earnings than Microvast. Microvast is trading at a lower price-to-earnings ratio than its competitors, indicating that it is currently more affordable than other companies in its industry.

Microvast has a beta of 1.27, indicating that its stock price is 27% more volatile than the S&P 500. Comparatively, Microvast’s competitors have a beta of 0.52, indicating that their average stock price is 48% less volatile than the S&P 500.

This is a summary of recent ratings and price targets for Microvast and its competitors, as reported by MarketBeat.com.

Microvast presently has a consensus price target of $8.00, suggesting a potential upside of 572.27%. As a group, “Miscellaneous electrical machinery, equipment, & supplies” companies have a potential upside of 35.61%. Given Microvast’s stronger consensus rating and  higher probable upside, equities analysts clearly believe Microvast is more favorable than its competitors.

This table compares Microvast and its competitors’ net margins, return on equity and return on assets.

22.5% of Microvast shares are held by institutional investors. Comparatively, 42.1% of shares of all “Miscellaneous electrical machinery, equipment, & supplies” companies are held by institutional investors. 21.0% of Microvast shares are held by company insiders. Comparatively, 14.4% of shares of all “Miscellaneous electrical machinery, equipment, & supplies” companies are held by company insiders. Strong institutional ownership is an indication that hedge funds, large money managers and endowments believe a stock is poised for long-term growth.

Microvast competitors beat Microvast on 8 of the 13 factors compared.

Microvast Holdings, Inc. designs, develops, and manufactures battery systems for electric vehicles and energy storage systems. The company offers a range of cell chemistries, such as lithium titanate oxide, lithium iron phosphate, and nickel manganese cobalt version 1 and 2. It also designs, develops, and manufactures battery components, such as cathode, anode, electrolyte, and separator. In addition, the company offers battery solutions for commercial vehicles and energy storage systems. Its commercial vehicle markets cover buses, trains, mining trucks, marine and port applications, and automated guided and specialty vehicles, as well as light, medium, heavy-duty trucks in the United States and internationally. The company was incorporated in 2006 and is based in Stafford, Texas.

Receive News & Ratings for Microvast Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Microvast and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter.