Lucira Health (NASDAQ:LHDXQ – Get Rating) is one of 42 publicly-traded companies in the “Diagnostic substances” industry, but how does it weigh in compared to its rivals? We will compare Lucira Health to similar companies based on the strength of its earnings, dividends, risk, valuation, analyst recommendations, profitability and institutional ownership.

This is a breakdown of recent ratings and recommmendations for Lucira Health and its rivals, as provided by MarketBeat.

As a group, “Diagnostic substances” companies have a potential upside of 37.65%. Given Lucira Health’s rivals  higher possible upside, analysts plainly believe Lucira Health has less favorable growth aspects than its rivals.

Lucira Health has a beta of 3.38, suggesting that its stock price is 238% more volatile than the S&P 500. Comparatively, Lucira Health’s rivals have a beta of 1.38, suggesting that their average stock price is 38% more volatile than the S&P 500.

57.0% of Lucira Health shares are owned by institutional investors. Comparatively, 45.4% of shares of all “Diagnostic substances” companies are owned by institutional investors. 30.4% of Lucira Health shares are owned by insiders. Comparatively, 14.1% of shares of all “Diagnostic substances” companies are owned by insiders. Strong institutional ownership is an indication that endowments, large money managers and hedge funds believe a stock is poised for long-term growth.

This table compares Lucira Health and its rivals’ net margins, return on equity and return on assets.

This table compares Lucira Health and its rivals revenue, earnings per share (EPS) and valuation.

Lucira Health’s rivals have higher revenue and earnings than Lucira Health. Lucira Health is trading at a higher price-to-earnings ratio than its rivals, indicating that it is currently more expensive than other companies in its industry.

Lucira Health beats its rivals on 7 of the 10 factors compared.

Lucira Health Inc. is a medical technology company. It is focused on the development and commercialization of transformative and infectious disease test kits. Lucira Health Inc. is based in Emeryville, California.

Receive News & Ratings for Lucira Health Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Lucira Health and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter.