Anthony Albanese has hinted some of the biggest names in Australian sport could be part of team team pushing for the Indigenous Voice to Parliament.

Following the decision by the Coalition not to endorse the Voice, the Prime Minister is looking for support from other quarters to make sure the 'yes' vote prevails later this year.

He told Sky News on Sunday morning the Voice already has the backing of major sporting codes and that he has been in talks with footy stars to publicly speak out in support of the vote.

'I know from speaking to a number of NRL and AFL players, both past and present, that they will be active in putting their views in support of constitutional recognition,' Mr Albanese said.

'They've all been very supportive of Indigenous recognition for a long period of time.

'Even before then, we will have the Indigenous rounds in both of the sports which will be a celebration of Indigenous Australians and their contribution to those sports.'

'And I expect that not just them but Tennis Australia have been supportive. Cricket Australia, all of the sporting codes.'

Two retired greats, Adam Goodes from the AFL and former NRL and State of Origin star Johnathan Thurston are likely recruits for the 'yes' case.

Both have already expressed support for the Uluru Statement from the Heart, the document that gives rise to the proposed Voice,

Another possible ambassador is retired former Australian Open champion and women's world No. 1 Ash Barty.

A potential 'Voice ambassador' suggested earlier in the year is Sydney Olympics 400 metres gold medalist Cathy Freeman.

One, perhaps surprising choice, of an athlete who Mr Albanese and Indigenous Affairs minister Linda Burney have already got on board to campaign for the 'yes' vote is retired American basketball great Shaquille O'Neal.

'Shaq has agreed to do some vids and to have a chat about the importance of bringing people together and that's really what the voice to parliament and constitutional recognition is about,' Mr Albanese said after meeting O'Neal August.

Homegrown US basketball star Patty Mills, who grew up in Canberra but plays for NBA team the Brooklyn Nets, is another name being bandied around as a pro-Voice advocate.

Historically referendums, which must be carried by an overall majority of Australians and a majority of the states, have stood a better chance when there is bi-partisan support and Mr Albanese recognised the Coalition's rejection of that was a hurdle.

However, he remained upbeat about the prospects of the Voice getting up pointing to a recent upset Victorian election result.

'Just a couple of weeks ago, in the Aston byelection, history was created with something that hadn't happened in over 100 years: the government winning a seat off the opposition in a byelection,' he said.

'So we live in different times from when past referendums have [been] held.'

The referendum is likely to be held between held between October and December of this year.

The question being asked will whether the Constitution should be altered to recognise the First Peoples of Australia by establishing an Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Voice.

The Voice will be an advisory body of elected First Nations representatives to make  'representations to the Parliament and the Executive Government of the Commonwealth on matters relating to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples'.

PM'S EMOTIONAL MESSAGE TO AUSSIES THINKING ABOUT VOTING NOIn an emotional press conference, Anthony Albanese implored Australians to vote yes in the Voice to Parliament referendum later this year. 'This moment has been a very long time in the making. It's a simple matter from the heart,' he said. 'Recognising Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Australians in our Constitution is the best chance this country has had to address the injustices of the past and move Australia forward for everyone, the best way to do this is to give people a voice.'This is a modest request. I say to Australia; don't miss it. This is a real opportunity.'This is a risk, having a referendum. Usually they don't succeed. But the people here can't wait. They can't. They've waited so long. They've waited a long time for justice, this is something where they're making such a modest request. I do feel a responsibility.'On the May 21 I began my prime ministership with a declaration about a referendum.'I knew what I was doing, I knew the weight that was there and I knew how that would be received by people. I also knew I had my party completely behind me.'I'm not here to occupy the space, I'm here to change the country. There's nowhere more important in changing the country than in changing the constitution to recognise the fullness of our history.'I want this for all Australians. We'll feel better about ourselves if we get this done. The truth is, Australia will be seen as a better nation in the rest of the world. Our position in the world matters.'