Suspicious Package Left On Carter Street Turns Out Not To Be Dangerous; Kendal Lewis, 33, Is Later Arrested For Making Terrorist Threats

A man suspected of placing a suspicious package at 1 Carter Street and acting bizarrely at multiple businesses is now in custody.

Police have arrested Kendal Lewis, 33, in connection with a suspicious package placed at 1 Carter Street Tuesday morning.

Lewis was reported to have been at the Days Inn located at 901 Carter Street.

Staff advised that Lewis was acting strange and demanding they give him change (money). Lewis ultimately left the business after not getting what he demanded.

He was then seen at 1 Carter Street where he left a bag. Passersby alerted police of what they believed to be a suspicious package.

The Explosives Ordnance Disposal Unit responded and ultimately made the decision to detonate the bag. The bag was found to have had personal effects including tools, clothes and newspapers.

Lewis then made his way back to the City Cafe at 901 Carter Street where he continued his strange behavior. Employees of the business again asked him to leave to which he replied, "call the police. I'll shoot them too." Employees took this to mean that he was armed. Police were called but Lewis had already left prior to police arrival.

Shortly thereafter, Lewis was spotted near 1200 Poplar Street. Law enforcement made the decision to place nearby businesses and schools on a soft lock-down until the suspect could be located and determine whether or not there was a threat to public safety.

Lewis was ultimately located at 973 Market Street where he was taken into custody. No gun was found on Lewis but he did possess a shaving blade. There were also obvious signs that Lewis was having a mental episode.

He has been taken to Silverdale Detention Center where he will be charged in connection with Tuesday morning's series of events.

He is charged with terroristic threats, assault x2, disorderly conduct, and possession of a controlled substance.

Silverdale Homers Their Way Out of 6-0 Hole To Sweep Bucs