Our cosmetic dental treatments can provide repair for damaged teeth, and also correct a number of different esthetic concerns with the shape and color of your smile. In only one visit, we can offer major transformation and protect your smile from the complications of your damaged tooth. In today’s blog, your Sheridan, WY, dentist talks about dental bonding.

Our teeth are coated in enamel, the strongest substance in the human body. But if an injury or accident compromises the enamel, this not only changes the appearance of a tooth, this exposes the sensitive inner structures to bacteria. The result could be painful cavities and even dental infection, which could eventually threaten the stability of your smile. To keep your smile whole, when a chip occurs let us know right away, so we can schedule a visit. In the meantime, rinse your mouth with warm water and try to recover any pieces you can to bring them with you. Use a bit of cloth to control any bleeding, and an ice pack to the side of the face to control facial swelling. You can also take an over-the-counter pain reliever.

When you arrive, we will see if dental bonding is the right choice for your smile. If so, we will numb the tooth and then thoroughly clean it. Next, we etch the outer surfaces and apply the composite resin material. This is the same metal-free materials we use in our tooth-colored dental fillings, which means we can shade it to blend with your smile seamlessly. We then shape and sculpt the tooth while we cure the composite resin beneath a special light. Finally, we polish the tooth for a brighter appearance. In one visit, we can repair minor chips, and also address concerns with the color and shape of the tooth.

You can take steps to help protect your teeth from injury. For example, if you play full contact sports that could damage teeth, be sure you wear an athletic mouthguard, as this lowers the risk of chipped and cracked teeth, and helps prevent them from being knocked loose or out as well. Be sure you maintain good oral hygiene habits too, as this helps your enamel stay strong and free of tooth decay, so your smile is more resistant to injury. If you have any questions about how we repair your smile in only one visit, then contact our team today to learn more.

Our team can offer cosmetic improvement in only one visit. To find out how our team offers conservative tooth repair, then reach out to Grinnell Street Dental in Sheridan, WY at 307-672-7567.