In this DIY I’ll show you how to make a beautiful tiered tray using vintage tins that you can pick up for just a few dollars at almost any garage sale or flea market.

This vintage-inspired 3-tiered tray is perfect for organizing your workspace. I'm using candy tins here but old coffee cans and cookie tins would work well too!

To start, you'll need a stable base for your tin-tiered tray. I'm using an old wooden paper towel holder that I picked up at Goodwill. I see them there quite often and if you find one, you can use most of the pieces like the two screws on the ends, the dowel, and the wood base. Not to worry if you can't find one! Just pick up a 7/8-inch dowel from the hardware store and use square plywood or a round craft wood disk for the bottom to add stability.Also, I recommend using screws for this DIY. You may be asking if you can use glue. I didn't try glue but I would recommend a 2-part epoxy just based on other DIYs I've worked on. It will give you a good hold but it won't be as strong as wood screws.

If you’re using a wooden paper towel holder, take it apart by unscrewing all of the pieces. Next, cut the center dowel down to size using a chop saw. My two dowel pieces are 5 inches long which gives me plenty of room between tins.

Drill a hole in the center of your dowel 1 inch deep. I'm using a 9/64 drill bit to drill a hole just slightly smaller than my dowel. Drill both sides if you are using a dowel and not a wooden paper towel holder.Note: You want to pre-drill holes that are slightly smaller in diameter than the screws you are using. This will allow them to go in easily (without cracking the wood) and still have something to catch onto.

Next use pliers to screw a dowel screw into one dowel. This will later connect the dowels at the center. Below is a closeup of the dowel screw I'm using.

Next, pre-drill a hole through the wooden base and use a long Philips head screw to attach the base to the dowel. Here I'm using the existing screw on my paper towel holder base.

To secure the top tier, I used the existing screw on my paper towel holder and the wooden topper. If you're using a dowel, use another long Philips head screw as well as a metal washer for stability to secure your tin.

If you'd like more ideas on how to use vintage tins in your home, check out my post --> 10 Creative Ways to Upcycle & Display Vintage Tins.