Large modifications are coming to Destiny 2 this year and some of them leaked earlier in the thirty day period. Bungie now thinks it is aware of who is accountable and has taken action, banning preferred Twitch streamer Ekuegan Teko-Agbo from the sport he performs to make a residing. The articles creator suggests he’s innocent, however, and no one’s pretty certain what to make of the overall episode.

Each so usually Bungie retains a solution conference with star gamers and written content creators from the Destiny 2 local community to preview forthcoming adjustments and get opinions on the position of the game and its foreseeable future. These summits are invite-only and seriously NDA’d, but that didn’t prevent evident screenshots of a PowerPoint presentation from the most current just one from being leaked on Discord on April 5 by a person called Freezing Dart. The slideshow seemingly uncovered future material, weapons, and gameplay alterations. A 7 days afterwards, Bungie took the unparalleled phase of publicly acknowledging the leak.

“Community conversation and engagement is central to Bungie and our online games,” it tweeted on April 14. “For several years, we have invited creators and other customers of the community to confidential summits to offer comments on the future of Future. This is a beloved component of the system, but depends greatly on rely on.”

The studio went on:

Breaches of this belief could end result in our inability to maintain more summits. We acquire these breaches extremely seriously and are taking actions to strengthen our insurance policies with those people invited to these inside meetings.

It did not point out Ekuegan by identify, but the streamer afterwards confirmed Bungie had settled on him as the resource of the leak in an job interview with Forbes’ Paul Tassi. The veteran participant renowned in the local community for his skill and achievements in the game reported he would no for a longer period perform it adhering to the ban and proceeded to delete some VODs of earlier Future 2 streams. Nonetheless, he claims he’s innocent and has no awareness of the leak, inspite of practically attending the summit in dilemma.

What seems to have Ekuegan fingered as the leaker are desktop icons in the leaked laptop screenshots that match his possess. He advised Tassi that was the rationalization Bungie gave him, and he even prompt he may perhaps have been framed. “I’m in so several NDAs [at the moment], why would I breach any? It is portion of the career,” Ekuegan informed Tassi. “I spent 14,000 several hours on this recreation, numerous hours aiding folks in Grandmasters.”

1 probability is that the leaks were expertly photoshopped to incriminate Ekuegan despite coming from an individual else. An additional possibility is that someone else employed his computer system to make the leak. Which is Tassi’s idea, and it would sq. people’s notion of Ekuegan as an honest and committed figure in the Future 2 community with regardless of what evidence Bungie has. It would however represent a breach of his NDA, but it would make extra sense than Ekuegan most likely blowing up his profession to momentarily and secretly impress a modest Discord channel.

Other big Future 2 streamers and material creators have similarly been in disbelief. I have witnessed Ekuegan as almost nothing but sort to me & the community,” wrote Gladd. “He’s a pillar. I have faith in him consider it for what it is value. At the Pretty the very least, Bungie demands to glance at this a lot more intently.” Destiny 2 lore YouTuber Byf was additional concise: “No clue what to believe. Entire problem sucks.”

It is not obvious when or if any solutions will be forthcoming. Bungie hasn’t elaborated over and above its preliminary two tweets, and did not promptly answer to a request for comment.

In the meantime, Ekuegan is nonetheless streaming other games and explained he’s performing on clearing his identify. “I have gotten to a area where I am happy with who I am in everyday living,” he tweeted. “I personally know the fact, I know who I am and I’m joyful knowing it. Only God can decide me.”

Update 4/17/23 10:24 p.m. ET: Bungie unveiled a new assertion late Monday night indicating it experienced “irrefutable evidence” showing a pattern of Ekuegan leaking private facts about Future 2 for many yrs now.

“We are really upset to have acquired this facts and desire that matters had gone differently with this man or woman,” the studio wrote. “We do not get these steps frivolously, and we are confident in our conclusion. This is our final conversation on the make a difference.”