AMVCA 2023: Anikulapo, Brotherhood, others battle for best movie crown ( Full Nominee List)

As a reader of PREMIUM TIMES, your opinion matters. Please take our survey to help us better understand the values and preferences of our readers. Your feedback will give us valuable insights into how we can tailor the different types of content we offer to meet your needs. The survey should only take about 6-8 minutes to complete.

Click here to take it.

Multichoice, organiser of the prestigious Africa Magic Viewers Choice Awards, announced the nominees of the ninth edition on Sunday night.

Anikulapo bagged the most nominations of the night with 16 nominations, followed by Brotherhood with 11 nominations and Shanty Town with 11 nominations.

Others on the list include Kayode Kasum’s Ile Owo, Mugisha Morris’ Tembele, and Winifred Mena-Ajakpovi’s ‘Four Four Forty-Four’, to battle for the Best Overall Movie crown in Africa.

The nomination announcement was aired via African Magic channels hosted by famous actresses Bisola Aiyeola (hyperlink) and Adjetey Anang.

The actresses hosted the event alongside kid actors from the Africa Magic original series, Jasmine Olarotimi and Nifemi Lawal.

Of the announced categories, ten are opened to public votes, while others will be decided by the AMVCA panel of judges headed by veteran filmmaker Femi Odugbemi.

The ninth edition of the Africa Magic Viewers’ Choice Awards is proudly brought to viewers by Africa Magic in association with MultiChoice and sponsored by Amstel Malta and Zagg Energy Drink.

This edition is a 3-day event with the award show scheduled for the 20th of May with a live broadcast across all Africa Magic Channels on DStv and GOtv.

See the complete nominee list of the awards, which will hold in Lagos on the 20th of May below

Tope Tedela – All The Colours Of The World Are Between Black and White

Winifred Mena-Ajakpovi – Four Four Forty Four

Efe Irele – Four Four Forty Four

Ivie Okujaye – On Your Own

To Have and To Hold

Millicent Jack – Four Four Forty Four

Muri Salami – Four Four Forty Four

Gbas Gbos by Tolu Obanro and Adam Songbird – Battle on Buka Street

Winifred Mena Ajakpoviv – Four Four Forty Four

Ife Olujuyigbe, Kayode Kasum – When are we getting married

Good journalism costs a lot of money. Yet only good journalism can ensure the possibility of a good society, an accountable democracy, and a transparent government.

For continued free access to the best investigative journalism in the country we ask you to consider making a modest support to this noble endeavour.

By contributing to PREMIUM TIMES, you are helping to sustain a journalism of relevance and ensuring it remains free and available to all.

AMVCA 2023: Anikulapo, Brotherhood, others battle for best movie crown ( Full Nominee List)

Video of Simi celebrating 35th birthday in bikini with mystery man triggers mixed reactions

How to Root Xiaomi Poco X5 Pro Without PC & Via Magisk