You can only get those e-Vic offers that have been loaded to your Vic card from Harris Teeter and are in your Friday e-mail (or on their website when you log in to your account). In order to get these offers, you have to be signed up for the e-Vic program on the Harris Teeter website.

Following are some of the deals that were sent out to various e-Vic members on Friday with the coupon match-ups, if applicable. You may have received some of these as well or you may have different offers. Check your e-mail to see which offers you have.

Harris Teeter has new sales starting April 12 including corn, bacon, sausage, Kraft shredded cheese (B2G3F), cereal, Celentano ravioli, microwave popcorn, pretzels, chips, Nature's Own Perfectly Crafted Bread, bath tissue and more.

* These deals are based on the online ad preview on the Harris Teeter website and the Express Lane prices on the Harris Teeter website for a Raleigh, NC area location. Some prices may vary in other stores. You may want to check your ad to verify prices. This list is not a guarantee of price. Sale prices and promotions are valid for VIC members.

Get 2X Fuel Points on participating General Mills products from 4/12-4/18/23. See ad or store for details.

In order to get the e-Vic deals, you have to be signed up on the Harris Teeter website for the e-Vic program. E-Vic prices are available the first Wednesday after you enroll.

Annie's Organic Mac & Cheese, 6 oz, $1.47, limit 6 (also part of 2X Fuel Points offer above)

Big G Cereal, select 8.9-12 oz, $2.37, limit 4 - $1/2 GM cereal coupon from HT digital coupons (also part of 2X Fuel Points offer above)

Oui Yogurt, 5 oz, $1.50 - $0.50/5 HT digital coupon (also part of 2X Fuel Points offer above)

Pillsbury Grands!Biscuits, 5 ct., 10.2-10.8 oz. or 5 ct. 7.3 oz. Cinnamon Rolls or 4 ct. 4 oz. Crescent Rolls, $1.66 (also part of 2X Fuel Points offer above)

Yoplait Yogurt, 32 oz., $2.50 (also part of 2 Fuel Points offer above)

Pictsweet Grilling or Air Fryer Vegetables, 11-18 oz, BOGO for $2.25 each

Celentano Manicotti or Ravioli, select 14-24 oz, BOGO for $3.65 each

Totino's Pizza Rolls, 50 count, $4.50 (also part of 2X Fuel Points offer above)

Nature's Own Perfectly Crafted Brioche Style Butter Rolls, 12 count, BOGO for $2.15 each

General Mills Kids Oatmeal, 8.1-8.4 oz., $3 (also part of 2X Fuel Points offer above)

Old El Paso Dinner Kits, 8.8-14 oz. select, $3 (also part of 2X Fuel Points offer above)

Chex Mix, 15 oz or 14.5 oz. Gardetto's, $3.50 (also part of 2 Fuel Points offer above)

Big G Family Size Cereal, 18-19.3 oz, BOGO - $1/2 HT digital coupon (also part of 2X Fuel Points offer above)

Save $3 when you buy 3 participating Unilever products. See details in online ad.

The sale prices above are valid with your Harris Teeter e-Vic reward card at most Raleigh, NC area locations. You can verify the prices for your specific store online at HarrisTeeter.com. The list above is not a guarantee of price.

Harris Teeter doubles coupons every day of the week automatically.

Coupons with a face value of $0.99 or less are doubled automatically everyday (unless the coupon indicated Do Not Double).

Harris Teeter will double up to 20 coupons per day, per household.

Harris Teeter will double up to 3 identical coupons (must have required product to go with each coupon).

BOGO sales ring up at half price. If you just buy one, it still rings up at half price. You can use a coupon on each item in a BOGO deal. So, if you buy 2 items that are BOGO, you can use two coupons (which is a very good thing!).

Shoppers cannot use a coupon with a rain check.

Senior discount: Seniors 60 and older receive a 5% discount every Thursday. Discount applies after coupons are deducted.

Harris Teeter digital e-coupons: Harris Teeter digital coupons are available to load to your Vic card. These digital coupons CANNOT be combined with paper manufacturer's coupons. They will not double.