With the increasing competition in the gaming space, Amazon has thrown its hat into the ring. If you’re a gamer looking to explore new gaming platforms and options, then the Amazon Luna is a great place to start.

With new games, integrations and offerings, it’s bound to be the new wave in the gaming industry. That’s why in this article, we’ll be sharing what Luna is, how it works and everything else you need to know about this platform.

Amazon Luna is Amazon’s cloud gaming platform powered by AWS. Similar to the Xbox cloud gaming, you can stream multiple games online through the devices you already own.

Since more people want a more flexible means to play games without having to download or update them, Amazon Luna offers a range of games that you can play as long as you have an internet connection.

As we’ve mentioned, Luna is powered by Amazon Web Services which is Amazon’s cloud computing platform. So with AWS, players can easily stream even heavy and high-quality games without any latency.

You also don’t need any gaming PC or console to utilize this service especially since you can play games on devices you already own. Some of the compatible devices include the Fire TV, Fire Tablets, Windows PC, Chromebooks, and Mac devices, along with web apps for iPhone, iPad, select Samsung smart TVs and Android.

Now since you will be streaming to use this service, Luna provides different streaming options. So you need at least 10Mbps when you want to enjoy 1080p streaming. If you want to save more, you can switch to 720p which requires lesser internet speed and consumes lesser data.

Finally, although Luna is a paid service, with Luna Couch, you only need your host as a subscriber. Other non-paying players can join a game as long as the host is a subscriber.

If you’d like to enjoy the full gaming experience, we recommend using the Luna controller. This Bluetooth controller is a great alternative to the PS DualSense and Xbox Wireless Controller. It connects directly to the cloud as well so you don’t need to set it up whenever you’re switching to a new device.

While you might not need it for gaming with your smartphone, you can easily use it to switch when you’re using multiple devices like a FireTV and PC. Since it integrates well with Alexa, it makes it easy to use thanks to voice commands. So try launching Luna games by voice on your FireTablet or TV.

There are multiple types of games available for different types of gamers. So if you want regular superhero and DC games, you can get them on Luna. There are also casual games, AAA, and even retro classics.

Some popular games include Kingdoms of Amalur: Re-Reckoning, Farcry6, Assassins Creed: The Odyssey, Battle for Bikini Bottom, Sonic Mania Plus, Resident Evil 2 and so much more.

Start by looking for the games you’d want to play with this platform. You can either choose to subscribe to Luna+, Ubisoft+ or Jackbox Games. There’s also the option of purchasing specific games on Ubisoft by linking your Ubisoft account.

Unfortunately, Amazon Luna isn’t available in every country. While it’s been launched in the US since 2020, it recently became available to Germany, the UK and Canada in March 2023.

Luna costs $9.99 a month. But, it’s cheaper if you’d like to access it from Jackbox Games. Here’s an image with the prices below;

If you have an Amazon Prime account, you can play a rotating selection of games on Luna that are included in Prime Gaming. Tap here to see which ones are available on your Amazon account. You can also explore the 7-day free trial to see if it’s the right fit for you.

At the bottom line, the Amazon Luna is still a new project undergoing new updates and integrations. However, since it’s a lot more accessible on multiple devices and it doesn’t have strict subscription requirements, we’re looking forward to what Amazon brings next to this platform. What do you think? Share with us in the comments below.