Chloe Sims left little to the imagination as she went braless in a cropped white vest top while posing for a very racy snap.

The former TOWIE star, 41, has recently moved to LA to film her new reality show House of Sims with her famous siblings.

Posting to her Twitter feed on Friday, Chloe posed for a sizzling snap in front of a mirror as she plugged her OnlyFans Easter content.

The reality star put on a very busty display as she showed the outline of her ample assets in a cropped white vest top, which also exposed her toned tummy.

She paired it with a pair of matching white underwear as she flaunted her incredible physique in the sexy snap.

Meanwhile the beauty styled her blonde tresses into perfect waves and added a full glam palette of make-up for the gorgeous picture.

Chloe moved across the pond in January after leaving Essex for a brand new life since quitting The Only Way Is Essex, despite being the show's longest-serving cast member.

She and her sisters, Frankie Sims and Demi Sims, signed a deal last year worth £1million to become the new Kardashians on OnlyFans' growing new TV venture.

The girls left ITV's reality show, TOWIE, to pursue their new show House Of Sims which is set to come out later in 2023.

The family dressed in leather for promo shots of the show and is expected to be very similar to the iconic reality show, The Kardashians on Disney+.

As part of the deal, the family will open OnlyFans accounts, but will feature Instagram-style pictures, with no explicit content.

Chloe told MailOnline: 'I get people will want to compare this to TOWIE, but this is a different concept; this will be a fly-on-the-wall insight into our lives as a family, currently calling it House of Sims as a working title. It will be completely real, and we're really excited to bring our viewers along on a big unfiltered adventure.

'We're proud to be The Sims, but being compared to the Kardashians all the time is a big compliment to us as a family. We want to see where this new show can take us and plan to go global.

Chloe, who is also a co-producer of the show, added: 'We want to become one of the best reality TV shows out there. OFTV is fully supporting us with this. We can't wait to get started.

'I feel very strongly that we should show ourselves in a natural light, showing all aspects of everything we do.'

The families new show House Of Sims has already racked the family £500,000 before it has even aired.