Man arrested in shooting of two Texas cheerleaders after one mistakenly got into the wrong car

One of the victims was critically injured in the shooting that unfolded early Tuesday outside an H-E-B supermarket in Elgin, Texas, police said.

A man has been arrested after two Texas cheerleaders were shot, one critically, after one of them mistakenly got into the wrong car, according to police and the owner of the gym where they trained.

Officers in Elgin, about 25 miles northeast of Austin, responded to reports of shots fired outside an H-E-B supermarket around 12:15 a.m. local time (1:15 a.m. ET) Tuesday, the Elgin Police Department said in a news release.

"Information suggests that an altercation occurred in the parking lot of H-E-B, and multiple shots were fired into a vehicle," police said. Two of the car's occupants were struck by gunfire, with one victim sustaining serious injuries and transported by helicopter to a hospital, where they were listed in critical condition, police said.

The suspect, Pedro Tello Rodriguez Jr., 25, has been charged with deadly conduct, a third-degree felony, police said.

Lynn Shearer, owner of Woodlands Elite Cheer Co., told NBC affiliate KXAN of Austin that the two people shot were cheerleaders who were on their way home from practice.

Shearer said the cheerleaders typically carpooled from the Austin area to her gym. On Monday night, she said at least four cheerleaders were on their way back to the Austin area and had to stop at an H-E-B, where some of the members had parked their cars.

One of the girls accidentally tried to get into the wrong car, Shearer said. That's when, she said, a "guy got out and they saw that he had a gun. And so they tried to speed off and he shot his gun, like five times or so into the car." Woodlands Elite did not immediately respond to an overnight request for comment. The Elgin Police Department also did not immediately respond to an overnight request from NBC News seeking to confirm these details.

According to ABC News, Heather Roth, a cheerleader with the Woodlands Elite, said in an Instagram Live post that she was the one who got out of her friend's car and opened the door of another vehicle she thought was her own, only to notice a man was in the passenger seat. She said she got out of the car and back into her friend's vehicle, the report said.

Roth reportedly said the man approached their vehicle and she rolled down a window to apologize. That's when the man started shooting, she said, according to ABC News. The Instagram Live post was no longer available early Wednesday, but Roth shared a number of posts that appeared to be related to the incident. She did not immediately respond to overnight request for comment.

Victim critically injured known as a 'role model' Shearer identified the cheerleader who was critically injured in the shooting as Payton Washington, of the Round Rock Independent School District.

“She’s won every title there is to win in all-star cheerleading. She’s literally a role model for the kids in this industry throughout the country,” Shearer said. “Everybody knows her. She’s literally one of the very best that’s ever done this sport.”

Messages of support for Washington have poured in on social media in the wake of the shooting, with a prayer organized by Woodlands Elite held Tuesday. Meanwhile, a GoFundMe page organized by the Woodlands Elite Generals to help raise money to cover her hospital costs had raised more than $60,800 as of early Wednesday.

The GoFundMe page said Washington was "stable in the ICU and will have a long road to recovery."

Shearer said the cheerleaders had "grown up" in her gym. "We’ve known them for years, some of them literally, since they were, you know, 8, 10 years old,” she said. “So they’re like our family.”

The shooting, she said "was unfortunate. These girls were just trying to get home."

As Washington faces a long road to recovery, Shearer said, she and the Woodlands Elite team would be there to support her and others affected by the shooting every step of the way.

“Our goal right now is to take it one day at a time and be there for them,” Shearer said.

Shooting comes following 2 similar incidents The shooting comes on the heels of two other eerily similar high-profile incidents in which the victims were allegedly shot after mistakenly approaching the wrong addresses.

Last week, 16-year-old Ralph Yarl was shot and seriously injured after mistakenly ringing the wrong doorbell in Kansas City, Missouri, while trying to pick up his siblings in an incident that sparked national outrage.

Just days later, Kaylin Gillis, 20, was fatally shot by a homeowner after the car she was riding in mistakenly turned into the wrong driveway in upstate New York.

The two incidents sparked a national conversation around gun violence and “stand your ground” laws, according to which a would-be shooter defending life or property does not have to retreat before taking violent action. The shooting of the cheerleaders is likely to further fuel the discussion.

When cheerleaders climb into my car, the last thing on my mind is shooting them.

2

posted on

by  ProtectOurFreedom

(I don’t like to think before I say something...I want to be just as surprised as everyone else)

Well, this is Austin.

3

posted on

by  Jewbacca

(The residents of Iroquois territory may not determine whether Jews may live in Jerusalem.)

This Cheerleader crime is out of control.

Yeah, isn’t this how those letters to Penthouse Forum started.......

6

posted on

by  Erik Latranyi

(This is the end of the Republic....because we could not keep it.)

My wife and her friend went shopping years ago and when through, the both got into the wrong car. Same model, color and style as her car, but she tried to start it and the key wouldn’t work. That’s when they noticed stuff in the car that didn’t belong there, like stuff on the dashboard.

Another time we were having dinner in a café next to a Winn-Dixie at a table where I could see my car in the parking lot. A woman with a cart full of groceries came out and tried to get into my car, a Lincoln Town Car.

She tried the key in the door, the trunk and the unlock code numbers on the driver’s door. Then she started peeking into the windows because I had dark tint at that time. She then realized she had the wrong car and looked around quickly to see if anyone was coming and saw he own car in a different line. I didn’t think about it until afterwards, but I could have hit the alarm button on my remote and scared her off!................ ..........

8

posted on

by  Red Badger

(Homeless veterans camp in the streets while illegal aliens are put up in hotels.....................)

When cheerleaders climb into my car, the last thing on my mind is shooting them.

10

posted on

by  Sirius Lee

(They intend to murder us.   Prep if you want to live and live like you are prepping for eternal life)

What’s with these ‘wrong’ house, ‘wrong’ car shooting events suddenly becoming common?

I had a young woman get into my car before. Thought I was an Uber driver I guess. I didn’t think about shooting her

12

posted on

by  escapefromboston

(Peace, commerce and honest friendship with all nations, entangling alliances with none.)

Just keep’n Austin weird takes on a whole new meaning.

13

posted on

by  LastDayz

(A blunt and brazen Texan. I will not be assimilated.)

14

posted on

by  Red Badger

(Homeless veterans camp in the streets while illegal aliens are put up in hotels.....................)

Great.... nuttin like fugly wanna-be “girls” mucking up the thread.

15

posted on

by  LastDayz

(A blunt and brazen Texan. I will not be assimilated.)

If Post #9 tries to get in my car, I’ll probably be OK with it.

If Post #10 tries to get in my car, the situation is going to escalate VERY quickly.

16

posted on

by  NorthMountain

(... the right of the peopIe to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed)

Disclaimer:

Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual

posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its

management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the

exemption for fair use of copyrighted works.