Mumbai Indians new fast bowling sensation Arjun Tendulkar bowled an exceptional well in the final over to defend 20 runs against Sunrisers Hyderabad on Tuesday. The 23-year-old was handed the responsibility to close out the innings against the 2016 Champions and he conceded only five runs and picked up his maiden wicket in the cash-rich league.

Cricket Fraternity came together to congratulate Arjun Tendulkar for his calm and composed bowling in the final over as he executed the wide yorkers to perfection making it difficult for batters to hit boundaries. Former Indian Cricketer Virender expressed his hearty wishes for the young man and his proud father Sachin Tendulkar.

“So happy to see Arjun doing well . @sachin_rt paaji must be a proud father. Arjun’s hard work paying off and my blessings are that this is only the beginning of great things to come. Well done Arjun! #SRHvsMI,” Sehwag Tweeted.

So happy to see Arjun doing well . @sachin_rt paaji must be a proud father. Arjun’s hard work paying off and my blessings that this is only the beginning of great things to come. Well done Arjun! #SRHvsMI

Arjun Tendulkar today grew in stature. Justified captain's trust by bowling tight final over, held his nerves, took his first IPL wicket. Congrats Paaji, here's wishing a long successful career for Arjun. @sachin_rt #Arjun

Many mocked him for nepotism but tonight he has shown his spot is well earned Congrats Arjun. @Sachin-rt you must be so proud #Arjuntendulkar #SRHvsMI #TATAIPL2023,” Preity Zinta Tweeted.

Arjun Tendulkar’s 1st wicket of the league brings in victory for @mipaltan in today’s #MIvsSRH match! RP Singh Tweeted.

With Jasprit Bumrah and Jhye Richardson ruling out the league and Jofra Archer playing only a single game for the franchise in 2023. Tendulkar was trusted to bowl with the new ball for the Mumbai Indian which has paid off well for the franchise so far.

Arjun Tendulkar had a good outing in the recent Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy, picking up ten wickets at an economy rate of just 5.69 runs per over in seven matches. A capable all-rounder who is getting better by the day and it looks like Arjun has a long career ahead of him.

The 23-year-old  grabbed his maiden IPL wicket for the Mumbai Indians (MI) when he dismissed Sunrisers Hyderabad’s Bhuvneshwar Kumar on Tuesday and celebrated the hattrick win in the league stage.

It looks like Mumbai Indians unearthed a new pacer in the form of young  Arjun Tendulkar, who is capable of bowling with the new ball and the final overs and they will look to maintain his form for the side. Rohit Sharma-led side will come back to Wankhede to take on the Punjab Kings (PBKS) on Saturday, April 22.