If you can’t figure out what to write for your wedding vows, ChatGPT can help you. That’s what Elyse Nguyen and other people did before their big days. “At first, we inputted the prompt as a joke, and the output was pretty cheesy with personal references to me and my husband,” said Nguyen.

The financial analyst at Qualcomm emphasized, “The essence of what vows should incorporate was there, our promises to each other and structure.” Nguyen edited the AI-generated text and the prompts to add humor and details about her partner. As a result, she used a significant portion of ChatGPT’s suggestions, and her husband agreed to use them.

The artificial intelligence tool launched in November last year has already impacted various parts of daily life. Other people like Elyse Nguyen have asked the AI bot to write their commitments to their forever partners.

The Qualcomm financial analyst felt relieved to use ChatGPT wedding vows. “It helped alleviate some stress because I had no prior experience with wedding vows, nor did I know what should be included,” Nguyen stated.

“Plus, ChatGPT is a genius with alliteration, analogies, and metaphors,” she added. Then, she quoted one of the AI bot’s suggestions, “I promise to be your partner in life with the enthusiasm of a golfer’s first hole-in-one.”

Contrary to popular belief, using AI to compose wedding vows is not a novel trend. For example, Ellen Le created her wedding website using a Writer’s Block Assistant tool.

It was on the online wedding planning service Joy, one of the first companies to integrate with ChatGPT. The Writer’s Block Assistant aids users in writing vows, best man and maid of honor speeches, and thank you cards.

Le, the product manager, used it to draft an “about us” page. Also, she used it to write directions from San Francisco to her Napa Valley wedding.

You may also like: The Top 10 Applications of ChatGPT in Daily Life

“I started drafting my vows, and when I typed in how we met, it produced this very delightful story,” Le said. “Some of it was inaccurate, making up certain details, but it gave me a helping hand and something to react to, rather than just spending 10 hours thinking about how to get started.”

Others take the trend to the next level by asking AI to officiate their wedding vows. For example, Chris Noessel, an author who discusses AI, was one of the first people to do so.

On April 2, 2018, he and his husband, Benjamin Remington, exchanged vows read by a chatbot. Noessel said it was their unique way of honoring their relationship.

Some people disagree with using ChatGPT wedding vows. Myka Meier, an etiquette consultant and wedding conduct guru, believes using AI that way is improper.

“Those are words that are supposed to set the precedent for the rest of your lives together,” she said. “If you feel you won’t do that justice without using AAI, consider letting the officiant say them rather than writing your own.”

In a similar situation, a husband asked ChatGPT for baby names in Hong Kong. In response, his wife became angry and posted an anonymous thread on DiscussHK. He allegedly asked:

“Can you help me find a Chinese name for my soon-to-be-born baby? He is a boy. I hope he will be intelligent, handsome, tall, and lucky.”

Later, the computer program recommended names with suggested great things for the child. For example, one of the names was “Zhiyu,” which means “wise universe.”

Another was “Meifeng.” meaning “beautiful mountains.” However, the father was unsatisfied with these options and asked, “Any other suggestions?”

You may also like: The Top 10 Business Applications of ChatGPT

ChatGPT recommended traditional Chinese names, such as “Yongyi,” meaning “resolute and brave.” Also, it shared “Mingli,” which means “understanding things.”

The anonymous poster’s husband felt the ChatGPT baby names “all sounded quite good.” Afterward, he asked his wife to pick from the suggestions.

However, the wife did not like them and became livid. She explained in the online forum that naming children is a momentous occasion. Yet, the father-to-be turned to AI.

She complained about her husband being lazy. “It’s obvious he is too lazy to think! He doesn’t even care about naming his child!” she said.

People are using ChatGPT wedding vows to facilitate writing them. Moreover, they say it avoids embarrassing errors and sometimes produces creative messages.

Are you willing to use an AI chatbot to compose important messages on your big day? Or will you insist on writing them with you and your partner?

Nevertheless, such events show the growing influence of artificial intelligence in our daily lives. Ensure it benefits you by following the latest digital trends at Inquirer Tech.