Good Morning, this is Capital Essence’s Market Outlook (the technical analysis of financial markets) for Monday April 17, 2023.

Equity market ended lower on Friday but off intraday lows as a barrage of mixed economic data appeared to affirm another Federal Reserve interest rate hike, dampening investor enthusiasm after a series of big U. S. bank earnings launched first-quarter reporting season.  The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 0.42 percent to 33,886.47; the S&P lost 0.21 percent at 4,137.64; and the Nasdaq Composite dropped 0.35 percent to 12,123.47. The CBOE Volatility Index (VIX) widely considered the best gauge of fear in the market, fell more than 4 percent to close at 17.07.

Financial stocks attracted strong buying support last week after Citigroup Inc (C), JPMorgan Chase & Co (JPM) and Wells Fargo (WFC) & Co beat earnings expectations, easing fears of stress in the banking system.  As such, the Financial Select Sector SPDR Fund (XLF) rose 0.98 percent on the day but is down nearly 4 percent YTD, underperformed the S&P.  Now the question is what’s next?  Below is an update look at a trade in XLF.

The graphics below are from our “U. S. Market Trading Map”, show the near-term technical bias and trading ranges.  As shown, the underlying is in a short-term bullish trend when the price bars are painted in green.  The underlying is in a short-term bearish trend when the price bars are painted in red.  The yellow bars identify period of neutral or sideways trading pattern.  Additionally, the light-blue shading represents the short-term trading range.  A move above or below that range is considered overbought (as represents by the red shading) or oversold (as represents by the dark-green shading).  Readings above or below the red and green shaded areas are considered extremely overbought or extremely oversold.

Our “U. S. Market Trading Map” painted XLF bars in green (buy) – see area ‘A’ in the chart.  Over the past few days, XLF has been trending higher after the early March correction found support just above the 50% Fibonacci retracement.  Last week’s rally had helped pushed the ETF above the closely watch 38.2% Fibonacci retracement, signified a bullish breakout and upside reversal.  The overall technical backdrop remains supportive of further advance.  Right now follow-through is the key.  A close above the 1-year moving average, just below 34, will confirm this and trigger acceleration toward the 36 zone, or the 23.6% Fibonacci retracement.

XLF has support around 30.  Short-term traders could use that level as the logical level to measure risk against.

Short-term technical outlook remains bullish (buy).  Last changed April 13, 2022 from bearish (sell) – (see area ‘A’ in the chart).

[Note: for more details analysis, please take a look at our “US Market ETF Trading Map”].

As indicated in the above chart, the S&P trades in broad trading bands, with the trend behavior defined by these trading bands.  The pink band represents key resistance, while the green band represents key support.

As it was the case of late, the S&P continues whipsawed near the lower boundary of the pink band as it works off overbought conditions.  Momentum indicator shifted lower from near overbought zone, suggesting some short-term weakness likely.  Nonetheless, Money Flow measure held firmly above the zero line, indicating a positive net demand for stocks.  This could help putting a short-term floor under the market.  With this in mind, we’d look to reduce exposure into overbought strength, which might take the S&P closer to 4200, or the lower boundary of the red band, before a significant pullback unfolds.

S&P has minor support near 4100.  A failure to hold above that level has measured move to around 4032, which we’ve determined using the trend channel moving average. While seemingly vulnerable to some short-term weakness, the near-term technical bias remains bullish as long as the S&P holds above that level.

On the upside, the lower boundary of the red band, around 4200, represents key resistance. As mentioned, the normal behavior for the S&P has been to consolidate and retreated almost every time it traded above that level so there is a high probability that a significant consolidation pattern will again develop in this area.

Short-term trading range: 4020 to 4200.  S&P has support around 4100.  A failure to hold above that level has measured move to around 4033.  Resistance is around 4160.  A sustain advance above that level has measured move to around 4200.

Long-term trading range: 3700 to 4300.  S&P has support near 3700.  A failure to hold above that level has measured move to 3100.  The index has resistance near 4300.  A close above that level has measured move to 4900.

In summary, trading behaviors in the S&P constrained by a short-term sideways pattern and shown little evidence of a sustainable change in trend.  While seemingly vulnerable to some short-term setback the overall technical backdrop remains positive so pullback should be short-lived.

© All rights reserved and actively enforced.

Note: This is a free edition of The Market Outlook, a daily CEM News subscriber newsletter. To get this column before market opens together with hundreds of technical trading ideas (including stocks and ETFs) every month, please click here.

Subscribe to CEM News to receive more in-depth research from Capital Essence.