WYOMISSING, Pa. — Eve Gibbs, a senior biochemistry and molecular biology major and chemistry minor at Penn State Berks, is well on her way to an exciting career in science research. This past summer, she completed an internship with the National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases (NIAMS). And, after the spring semester ends, she will spend the summer working at the National Institute of Health through its Undergraduate Scholarship Program.

Gibbs stated that she was fortunate to be selected for NIAMS Intramural Research Program in Bethesda, Maryland. Among the diverse group of students from across the county, she was one of only eight selected for in-person training. Another 11 interns were virtual for the eight-week program.

Working in the NIAMS RNA Molecular Biology Laboratory, Gibbs was part of a research team whose goal was to create a protein-editing machine that could make it possible to enter the mitochondria of cells and alter DNA.

She explained that she wanted to intern with the RNA Lab because she is interested in conducting research that may lead to a cure for various skin conditions, which run in her family. She also wanted to gain laboratory experience, to supplement the lab experience she acquired at the college, before eventually applying to graduate school.

Her ultimate goal is to become a cosmetic chemist, working on research related to skin microbiomes in order to formulate new products that can be used to treat various skin conditions.

This summer, she will spend 10 weeks working at the National Institute of Health. Then after she graduates from Penn State Berks in December 2023, she has a research position waiting for her at the NIH, also in Bethesda, where she will work with an NIH Principal Investigator or an NIH postdoctoral fellow.

When asked who inspires her, she credited her mother, Greglynn Gibbs, who worked at Penn State Berks as chemistry research support technician for many years. She said her mother instilled passion and drive to pursue research opportunities in science.

She also credited the professors and mentors at Penn State Berks. “They have helped me a lot. I ask a lot of questions and they have been very patient. They have also helped me to learn my way around a lab. I feel fully equipped and knowledgeable to embark on my future," said Gibbs.

About the Biochemistry and Molecular Biology program at Penn State Berks

The Bachelor of Science in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology program applies the basic principles of chemistry and physics to the study of living cells and their components to explain biology at molecular, genetic and cellular levels. Students will develop a strong foundation in quantitative and analytical biological sciences, including molecular biology, biochemistry, enzymology, metabolism, cell biology and molecular genetics. Penn State Berks is the only campus outside University Park to offer the biochemistry and molecular biology degree.