BRITAIN'S Got Talent fans have flooded Ofcom with complaints over one particularly "dangerous" performance.

The act in question saw American Thomas Vu undertake his nail-bitingly tricky stunt on stage.

He went on to solve a Rubik's Cube while he was covered in flames - leaving Simon Cowell and the rest of the Britain's Got Talent panel stunned.

Thomas completed it without getting hurt and secured four 'yes'es from Simon and fellow judges Amanda Holden, Bruno Tonioli and Alesha Dixon - meaning he is through to the next round.

ITV even made sure to put a 'do not try this at home' caption on-screen as the jaw-dropping scenes played out.

Yet some fans were not convinced it should have aired at all.

Broadcasting watchdog Ofcom has told The Sun it received 334 official complaints shortly after the episode was broadcast.

It added: "Complaints related to a routine which involved a contestant trying to complete a Rubik's Cube whilst on fire."

At the time his act aired, many viewers slammed the performance as "irresponsible" and feared that young children may attempt to replicate the daredevil stunt.

One angry viewer wrote on Twitter: "Britain's Got Talent that was not a great idea putting the guy on the show setting him #onfire doing #rubikscube as kids will try recreate this by pouring lighter fluid on friends, highly irresponsible.

"@Ofcom hope you take note too as only a #muppet would do this act."

Another fumed: "Think that stuntman at the end may get a few OFCOM complaints for #bgt."

"YOU SHOULD NOT BE SHOWING THIS #BGT it’s a No no no no no @Ofcom @BGT," a third raged.

Before his performance, the 35-year-old, who previously appeared on America's Got Talent, said: “I want to show the world that the Rubik’s Cube can be very interesting.”

But not all fans disapproved of the act.

One said on Twitter: "Wow that was flaming insane I can’t believe he set himself on fire while doing the Rubik's cube trick and pulled it off great work that looked so dangerous then ever before."