My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge: because thou hast rejected knowledge, I will also reject thee, that thou shalt be no priest to me: seeing thou hast forgotten the law of thy God, I will also forget thy children. – Hosea 4:6

Hosea 4:6 is a reproof statement by God spoken through the prophet Hosea to expose the Israelites’ sins and corrupt leaders. The verse ‘My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge: because thou hast rejected knowledge, I will also reject thee, that thou shalt be no priest to me: seeing thou hast forgotten the law of thy God, I will also forget thy children’ can be divided into parts to understand the meaning better. First, ‘My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge’ means that the Israelites had lost their trust in God. Second, ‘because thou hast rejected knowledge, I will also reject thee, that thou shalt be no priest to me’ means God is not happy with their forgetfulness or lack of faith. Hence, he will not call anyone to be a priest to lead His people.’ Third, ‘seeing thou hast forgotten the law of thy God, I will also forget thy children’ means God will disown the children or future generation of Israelites, addressed by the prophet Hosea as they have not studied the law and taken the responsibility of their action or followed the commandments He had given through Moses.

The verse Hosea 4:6 displays the anger of God towards His believers. A few interpretations are given below.

This interpretation is based on most historical or Biblical accounts mentioned in the Old Testament, including creation, Exodus, and the general nature of God before the New Testament events occur. Here, the reader may be agnostic or take the events in the Bible with a critical nature. Also, ‘because thou hast rejected knowledge, I will also reject thee, that thou shalt be no priest to me’ implies that God easily gets angry if His believers do not obey His commandments.

In this version, the reader believes that God doesn’t understand what people go through. He doesn’t acknowledge the sufferings people face and wants them to be completely obedient despite the hardships. This version is mostly considered by Christians who do not consider God as a total authority due to His furious nature. Hence the reader believes that the verse ‘My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge: because thou hast rejected knowledge, I will also reject thee, that thou shalt be no priest to me: seeing thou hast forgotten the law of thy God, I will also forget thy children’ means that God doesn’t show kindness and has too many conditions. So if a believer shows doubt, God holds him or her responsible.

According to this interpretation, the reader understands the historical background and context of the verse. As the Israelites were leaning towards idol worship instead of God, He sent Hosea to express His despair over their unbelief. The churches also use the same interpretation to encourage Christians to avoid idol worship of any form in order to be faithful to the religion. Here, the verse ‘My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge: because thou hast rejected knowledge, I will also reject thee, that thou shalt be no priest to me: seeing thou hast forgotten the law of thy God, I will also forget thy children’ implies that Israelites had forgotten God’s hand in ending their slavery in Egypt as well as all the commandments He gave through Moses.

Additionally, the priest who was aware of the Holy Scriptures and the past failed to educate the people and bring people to faith. In the current times, priests may use this verse as a warning to the churches or persons who do not follow God’s commandments. He or she understands that God is not cursing or abandoning their children, as the proof is given in the further verses, but He is grieving for their lost lives and uses Hosea’s words to chastise them and bring them back to faith.

The events in the Book of Hosea occur around 786 B. C.  – 746 B.C., under the rule of King Jeroboam II. As it has been nearly 1000 years since the Israelites were delivered from Egyptian slavery, the people of Israel have been under the rule of various empires. Additionally, Hosea, the prophet, was sent by God to issue urgent warnings to the people of Israel in the Northern Kingdom. God also commands Hosea to have a symbolic marriage with a prostitute to show the people of Israel that despite idol worship and disobedience, God loved them. However, they remained unfaithful, and the kingdom was taken over by Assyrians. Hosea chapter 4 is about God’s call to Israel to leave idol worship and return to Him. As Hosea reads the charges against the people of Israel, he also exposes the corruptness of the priest as God warns of taking responsibility from them.

The verse Hosea 4:6 is a chastising message to the people of Israel and is applicable to anyone who worships idols, which is against God’s commandment. The literary devices used in Hosea 4:6 is given below.

Theme – The major themes in Hosea 4:6 are warning, rejection, and destruction.

Alliteration – The verse has repeated consonant sounds without quick succession. For example, the sound of /th/ in ‘I will also reject thee, that thou shalt be no priest to me: seeing thou hast forgotten the law of thy God, I will also forget thy children’.

Assonance – The verse has rich use of vowel sounds in repetition and few are in quick succession. For example, the sound of /ee/, the sound of /o/, the sound of /i/, the sound of /a/, and the sound of /aw/ in ‘My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge: because thou hast rejected knowledge, I will also reject thee, that thou shalt be no priest to me: seeing thou hast forgotten the law of thy God, I will also forget thy children’.

Consonance – The verse has a good use of consonant sounds in repetition and few are in quick succession. For example, the sound of /r/, the sound of /l/, the sound of /s/, the sound of /j/, the sound of /t/, and the sound of /d/ in ‘My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge: because thou hast rejected knowledge, I will also reject thee, that thou shalt be no priest to me: seeing thou hast forgotten the law of thy God, I will also forget thy children’.

Hyperbole – The verse Hosea 4:6 is also a good example of hyperbole as the first part of the verse, ‘My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge: because thou hast rejected knowledge, I will also reject thee’ appears to be exaggerating God’s anger. One of the reasons is that instead of rejecting the people of Israel, God is actually reproofing them and asking them to return from idol worship.