Think of how much better the world would be if Clarence Thomas had had enough soul when he was young to become a blues man instead of the thoroughly corrupt sleaze ball and Supreme Court Justice who loved porn the way Brett Kavanaugh loved beer.

Blind Clarence Thomas had the blues in him, sure enough, but such was his corrupted soul that instead of making music with it, he spread the misery that the blues was meant to lighten and dispel. When "Justice" Thomas votes to take away rights, or joins with the whitest of the white reactionaries on the court to make a ruling, lots of people wake up in the mornin' with the walkin' blues and search around for their shoes. Lots of people are going to have harder days because of the callous indifference this man displays to people who lack his access to wealth and power.

He puts stones in their pathways, then rationalizes any feelings of guilt by telling himself that those who suffer just weren't as enterprising as he was himself. He puts the hurt on people, then goes off on his benefactor's yacht for those regular cruises that are his reward for being a dependable vote on matters that matter to billionaires like his dear friend. That dear friend is a billionaire who was so thoughtful as to buy Blind Clarence's mama a house out of his petty cash fund for deserving black folk. He also laid out the money to fix it up nice, then bought adjacent property to lessen nearby noise and disturbances. Whadda guy, right? But if there's anything American billionaires are known for it's their deep pocketed generosity. They give until their hands bleed, and still the damn socialists want more.

Think, though, if the blindness of Clarence Thomas had been real rather than figurative. Think of poor little Clarence learning to pick out a blues tune on a cheap guitar from Sears. Think of the balm he might have given the world without that moral blindness that characterizes him. What if he'd been able to see more clearly, then think of how much he might have alleviated or lessened pain with the music he made instead of the laws he sanctioned, or the other laws he ignored. Instead' he became a "black white man," as some Native American tribes dubbed these darker specimens who often showed up when the white people showed up.

The problem with Blind Clarence Thomas was that he identified as white, never seeing his own color at all until he could use it to deflect criticism. No one ever played the "race" card more astutely than when Blind Clarence used it to cover his ass at his confirmation hearings. He labeled the charges brought against him by Anita Hill as a "high-tech lynching." What was "high-tech" about what had happened to him during those hearings wasn't clear, but Blind Clarence just couldn't see how scummy it was for him to equate his own weary woes to the horrific history of crimes against black men strung up in southern trees after being savagely beaten, castrated, and otherwise abused. Hey, they just paid the dues; he reaped the benefits.

Generally speaking, it takes a white Republican to be so obtuse as to pervert or invert a comparison that badly, but because Blind Clarence identifies as white, it was easy for him to make such a tone-deaf whine in front of the whole world without being called on it. He played that card and raked in the chips.

And there ain't no blues heard on those yachts, in those grand lakeside mansions, or down in San Francisco where the Bohemian Clubbers are glad to have him drop by most any time.

The primary color Blind Clarence sees is the green. But you know what they say: "There's none so blind as those who cannot see."  And as they also say, "what does it profit a man if he gains lots of rich white friends, but loses soul."

But Blind Clarence just might have the blues these days. The "high-tech" lynchers are out to get him once more, and it couldn't happen to a more deserving guy. Perhaps he can find solace in some toe-tappin' soul music from Lawrence Welk, Pat Boone, or Kid Rock. Those brothers can really get down with it.