Tiptree (NASDAQ:TIPT – Get Rating) and Kingsway Financial Services (NYSE:KFS – Get Rating) are both small-cap finance companies, but which is the superior stock? We will compare the two businesses based on the strength of their dividends, risk, analyst recommendations, profitability, institutional ownership, earnings and valuation.

This is a summary of recent ratings and price targets for Tiptree and Kingsway Financial Services, as provided by MarketBeat.

33.6% of Tiptree shares are held by institutional investors. Comparatively, 69.0% of Kingsway Financial Services shares are held by institutional investors. 31.1% of Tiptree shares are held by company insiders. Comparatively, 60.1% of Kingsway Financial Services shares are held by company insiders. Strong institutional ownership is an indication that large money managers, hedge funds and endowments believe a company will outperform the market over the long term.

Tiptree has a beta of 1.1, indicating that its share price is 10% more volatile than the S&P 500. Comparatively, Kingsway Financial Services has a beta of -0.31, indicating that its share price is 131% less volatile than the S&P 500.

This table compares Tiptree and Kingsway Financial Services’ top-line revenue, earnings per share and valuation.

Kingsway Financial Services has lower revenue, but higher earnings than Tiptree. Tiptree is trading at a lower price-to-earnings ratio than Kingsway Financial Services, indicating that it is currently the more affordable of the two stocks.

This table compares Tiptree and Kingsway Financial Services’ net margins, return on equity and return on assets.

Kingsway Financial Services beats Tiptree on 7 of the 11 factors compared between the two stocks.

Tiptree, Inc. is a holding company, which engages in the provision of specialty insurance and investment management services. It operates through the following segments: Insurance, Mortgage, and Other. The Insurance segment offers specialty insurance, warranty products, and related administration services. The Mortgage segment includes residential mortgage loans which are typically sold to secondary market investors, either servicing released or servicing retained. The Other segment refers to the asset management, mortgage operations of luxury, shipping operations, and other investments. The company was founded on March 19, 2007 is headquartered in Greenwich, CT.

Kingsway Financial Services, Inc. operates as a holding company. The firm engages in the provision of financial services. It operates through the following segments: Extended Warranty and Leased Real Estate. The Extended Warranty segment provides after-market vehicle protection services distributed by credit unions. The Leased Real Estate segment leases a real property to a third party pursuant to a long-term triple net lease. The company was founded on September 19, 1989 and is headquartered in Chicago, IL.

Receive News & Ratings for Tiptree Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Tiptree and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter.