Denial’s the name of the game for many of the beach town’s residents on an intriguing Sanditon Season 3 Episode 4, “Episode 4.”

Just as Georgiana thought the trial would put the gossip and whispers to rest, she finds no such quiet or relief. So, what does the young heiress do?

Why, put on her best party dress and host a bunch of frivolous, uncharacteristic parties!

But where there’s a party in Sanditon, plenty of drama and scandal is sure to follow, and this hour’s festivities are no different.

The lead-up to Georgiana’s “Rise of the Phoenix” ball is filled with tension and angst in a fun, exciting way. Everyone has something to deal with, from Arthur and Harry to Charlotte to most of the Colbourne clan, making for a meatier episode for all.

Among those dealing with some issues is Arthur, whose worldview was altered in “Episode Three” courtesy of his conversation with Harry. It’s thrilling that we finally see an exciting arc for Arthur as he learns something new about himself, knowing that his sexual identity is not universally accepted by society.

Harry is helping him open that part of himself more throughout the hour, especially seeing the pair plan a trip to Wales. They look so relieved as they talk about the journey to where they can be free and who they want to be.

Given the period’s criminalization of homosexuality and, as Lady Montrose points out, an offense punishable by death, it doesn’t make the moment we see Arthur realize that the Wales trip is off in the face of Harry and Georgiana’s engagement announcement any less sad.

This arc further highlights how unnecessary and heartbreaking this bigoted thinking has always been. Paired with Arthur’s expression at the engagement announcement and Harry’s speaking with his mother just before the ball, the deep hurt and disappointment is clear as day and should be picked up by anyone who knows the pair.

Given the times we are all currently living in now, denying your truth is a far too relatable fact of life, making this story even more emotional.

While Arthur’s dealing with heartbreak, Charlotte’s coping with some denial of her own as she can’t seem to stay far enough away from Colbourne throughout the hour.

Despite the palpable angst between the pair, there’s a sense of humor that even with their best attempts at moving on and forgetting their feelings, they still wind up stuck together.

From Leo’s commentary on how her family and the former governess are connected to Charlotte imparting helpful and dangerous advice to Augusta about love and what it’s meant to be, there’s something darkly comical about it all.

Ben Lloyd-Hughes and Rose Williams absolutely nail the repressed longing aspects of the story in a way that gets you.

All the while, Georgiana’s party girl/socialite ways seemingly alienate her from the people closest to her. It’s disheartening to see her lose herself in the partying and the people she’s starting to surround herself with, even though it’s understandable that she’s trying to seal up any vulnerable parts of herself.

With the engagement announcement, it feels like the breaking point for a few of those closest to her if Arthur and Charlotte’s reactions are any indications.

But will we see Georgiana make her down the aisle by the end of the series?

Ultimately, the final scene is a perfect end to the entertaining and tumultuous hour, with Edward and Augusta eloping. Because if there’s one thing we know about Charlotte, she will always be willing to help and make things right.

* Do I see things, or do some of the beats being hit this season feel an awful lot like season 1?

* Tom’s return to his unbearable pig-headed ways is not how I saw his story going in the final season. But if there’s one character that would show his lack of willingness to keep growing, it would be Tom [aside from Edward, of course].

* Despite the scene’s cliched aspects, Ralph interrupts Charlotte and Georgiana’s conversation at the absolute wrong [right?]; the moment only further interrupted by Alexander and Samuel is PERFECT.

What did you think of this episode of Sanditon? Share your thoughts in the comments below!

Follow us on Twitter and on  Instagram!

Want more from Tell-Tale TV? Subscribe to our newsletter here!