From wearing short clothes to having loud sex, women have been slut-shamed for eons now. There’s nothing new to it and we’re so used to it that we have internalized it (FYI I’m really glad the next generation hasn’t).

To add to my list of miseries and a story I’d proudly tell over the next 30 years is how I got kicked out of my rented house because I was having too much and too loud sex.

Oh yeah, you heard that right!

Sure I can chalk it up to how the man who complained about me is probably not having enough sex or have had sex and regrets it looking at his two kids. But this is all in jest, right? What is the actual reason this man just couldn’t hear a woman enjoy sex multiple times a day?

For me, the incident is a clear example of how women are subjected to slut-shaming, even in their own homes. The fact that I was having consensual sex with someone I like should not be a matter of concern to anyone else, let alone my neighbour.

Sure, knock and let me know to keep it down and I will. But complaining to the landlord and making sure you paint it like there’s a whorehouse running here is absolutely creepy, sexist, and quite honestly, pathetic.

The cherry on top is that my landlord didn’t speak to me but to my male flatmate. I mean, really.

Slut-shaming can harm a person’s confidence, and perpetuate body image issues and anxiety. In a nutshell, you and your words can really break someone.

The only way forward for me is to keep quiet about it, not make any waves, find another house, evade the landlord while finding a new house, and not have sex in my house, in my room, that I pay for!

As a society, we need to recognize that a person’s sexual behavior is their own business and should not be subject to judgment or shame.

Moreover, landlords and other authorities should not be allowed to police anyone’s sexuality or dictate their living arrangements. It is unfair to expect a person to leave their rented home simply because they are engaging in consensual sexual activity. Although, there seems to be no legal recourse for it.

Similarly, using my male flatmate to act as my moral police or enforce arbitrary rules that limit my freedom and autonomy is demeaning, to say the least.

Wish I could rant some more but the final thing to say is just this — as a society, we need to recognize that sexuality is not something to be judged or controlled, and we need to work towards creating a more equitable and respectful world for everyone.