You may be trying to access this site from a secured browser on the server. Please enable scripts and reload this page.

You may be trying to access this site from a secured browser on the server. Please enable scripts and reload this page.

Sex Differences in the Speed–Duration Relationship of Elite Runners across the Lifespan

To determine if the speed–duration relationship is altered with age and sex of elite Master’s runners.

The world’s top 10 performances for men and women in three events (800, 1500, and 5000 m) across six age groups (18–34 yr, 40–49 yr, 50–59 yr, 60–69 yr, 70–79 yr, and 80–89 yr) were analyzed from public data to establish theoretical models of the speed–duration relationship. Critical speed (CS) and the curvature constant (D′) were estimated by fitting the average speeds and performance times with a two-parameter hyperbolic model.

Critical speed expressed relative to the 18- to 34-yr-olds, declined with age (92.2% [40–49] to 55.2% [80–89]; P < 0.001), and absolute CS was higher in men than women within each age group (P < 0.001). The percent difference in CS between the men and women progressively increased across age groups (10.8% [18–34] to 15.5% [80–89]). D′ was lower in women than men in the 60–69 yr, 70–79 yr, and 80–89 yr age groups (P < 0.001), but did not differ in the 18–34 yr, 40–49 yr, or 50–59 yr age groups.

Critical speed progressively decreased with age, likely due to age-related decrements in several physiological systems that cause reduced aerobic capacity. The mechanism for the larger sex difference in CS in the older age groups is unknown but may indicate physiological differences that occur with aging and/or historical sociological factors that have reduced participation opportunities of older female runners resulting in a more limited talent pool.

Copyright © 2022 by the American College of Sports Medicine

You can read the full text of this article if you:

Sex Differences in the Speed–Duration Relationship of Elite Runners across the Lifespan

Thought you might appreciate this item(s) I saw in Medicine & Science in Sports & Exercise.

Your message has been successfully sent to your colleague.

Some error has occurred while processing your request. Please try after some time.

Export All Images to PowerPoint File

Thought you might appreciate this item(s) I saw in Medicine & Science in Sports & Exercise.

Your message has been successfully sent to your colleague.

Some error has occurred while processing your request. Please try after some time.

Search for Similar Articles

You may search for similar articles that contain these same keywords or you may                 modify the keyword list to augment your search.

Data is temporarily unavailable. Please try again soon.

Readers Of this Article Also Read

Microdoses of Recombinant Human Erythropoietin Enhance Time Trial Performance in Trained Males and Females

Motor Unit Discharge Characteristics and Conduction Velocity of the Vastii Muscles in Long-Term Resistance-Trained Men

Plasma Acidosis and Peak Power after a Supramaximal Trial in Elite Sprint and Endurance Cyclists: Effect of Bicarbonate

An Association between Bioavailable 25-Hydroxyvitamin D and Bone Mineral Density in a Diverse Cohort of Collegiate Athletes

Trained Integrated Postexercise Myofibrillar Protein Synthesis Rates Correlate with Hypertrophy in Young Males and Females