Skip to main contentSkip to main content

Sign up for our newsletter to keep reading.

Sign up for our Crime & Courts newsletter

Get the latest in local public safety news with this weekly email.

You are the owner of this article.

You have permission to edit this article.

Portage police release photo of suspect sought in wake of store battery

Portage police have released a surveillance photo in hopes the public can help identify a suspect sought in the wake of a battery complaint.

PORTAGE — Portage police have released a surveillance photo in hopes the public can help identify a suspect sought in the wake of a battery complaint. The incident in question occurred Sunday in a local store, police said."The subject left the area in a black Honda SUV," according to the posting.

Motorcyclist accused of fleeing crash scene drunk with trauma level injuries, Portage police say

Anyone with information is encouraged to contact Portage police Detective Lisa Duncan at 219-764-5706 or by e-mail at lduncan@portage-in.com.

Sign up for our Crime & Courts newsletter

Get the latest in local public safety news with this weekly email.

* I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy policy.

Bob is a 23-year veteran of The Times. He covers county government and courts in Porter County, federal courts, police news and regional issues. He also created the Vegan in the Region blog, is an Indiana University grad and lifelong region resident.

Your notification has been saved.

There was a problem saving your notification.

Email notifications are only sent once a day, and only if there are new matching items.

Please log in to use this feature

Log In

Don't have an account? Sign Up Today

Valpo man nabbed with child porn after making video of his online activities, police say

When asked why he saved the video of his online activities, the accused responded, "Because it's stupid of me. It's just stuff you don't see a lot."

Heavily intoxicated woman found sitting on U.S. 6 was angry after being left at bar, cops say

"Upon speaking with Rose, she stated she was left alone at a nearby bar by her friend and was angry," police said.

'Wolf in sheep's clothing' gets 45 years for repeatedly molesting Porter County girl during game of doctor

"These acts of depravity occurred many times over the years until (the victim) could no longer keep this as a secret," the judge wrote.

US marshals apprehend suspect in March homicide in Gary

Martell Flippins, 35, of Gary was arrested Thursday in Chicago without incident, Inspector Nicolas Gonzalez said.

Porter County girl passed out after shooting fellow teen dead, then fled, new charging document says

"The gun fired and struck Andrew, who immediately fell to the ground," the allegations read. "Dakota became hysterical and passed out from the shock."

Russian cosmonauts take a spacewalk to relocate a radiator unit on ISS

Researchers say psychedelics could be the future of antidepressants

Researchers say psychedelics could be the future of antidepressants

219 News Now: Merrillville food and beverage tax nearing final approval at Statehouse

219 News Now: Merrillville food and beverage tax nearing final approval at Statehouse

Portage police have released a surveillance photo in hopes the public can help identify a suspect sought in the wake of a battery complaint.

You don't have any notifications.

Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.