There is category drama brewing in the race for the 2023 Lead Actor in a Drama Series Emmy Award trophy. The third episode of “Succession’s” final season saw Brian Cox’s character, Logan Roy, pass away (and if that’s a spoiler, you’ve been living under a rock). In theory, appearing in just three of the show’s 10 episodes would not qualify him for Lead Actor consideration. That being said, as of publication The Playlist has been told that no decision has been made on what category Cox will submit to nor do we know if he’ll return in flashbacks later in the season. So, the status of the two-time nominee in this field is something of a question mark. That may open a lot of doors to new blood.

This year there are only two returning contenders in the mix, “Better Call Saul’s” Bob Odenkirk, going for his sixth nom without a win in this category, and “Succession’s” Jeremy Strong, who won this particular Emmy in 2020. If Cox submits, he’d earn his third nomination in this category.

The only other likely nominee is “The Last of Us” star Pedro Pascal. Beyond that, you’re looking at a number of familiar names in new roles. “The Old Man’s” Jeff Bridges has a shot as does “House of the Dragon” star Paddy Considine. His role in “1923” could give Harrison Ford his first Emmy nomination ever while his performance as Prince Charles in “The Crown” could do the same for Dominic West. Also close to snagging a nomination is “Andor’s” Diego Luna, who earned a Golden Globe nom in December for his stellar work.

Other actors hoping to make some noise include longtime Television Academy favorite Bryan Cranson for “Your Honor,” Kevin Costner for “Yellowstone,” Gary Oldman in “Slow Horses” and Matthew Rhys who won this category in 2018 and earned a nomination for “Perry Mason” two years ago.

No matter what the outcome, this is a category that may look very old and very white. [Published April 12]

Jeff Bridges, “The Old Man”

Paddy Considine, “House of the Dragon”

Harrison Ford, “1923”

Diego Luna, “Andor”

Dominic West, “The Crown”