How can you show up to make others feel safer expressing their ignorance and inexperience? And how would it change society if you did?Recently, I read this article by writer Circé Creates. I loved the way she expressed the importance of allowing ourselves to be stupid as adults in order to foster learning. As a corporate leader in learning & development, and as an adult human on planet Earth, I see and experience the problems our fear of being stupid creates on a daily basis. I think we need to look at the problem differently though. Rather than what the individual can do, I am energized by imagining what can be done to promote a culture that embraces the stupidity that Circe describes. How are we all owning setting others up for learning success? How do we make it about you instead of about me?Before proceeding, I want to put a finer point on the word “stupid”. In her article, it is clear her intent and meaning. I fault her for nothing, but I want to use the word “ignorance”. There is a difference. Ignorance is not having had the experience before or not having been exposed to the knowledge. Stupidity is willfully ignoring the experience or knowledge.Without some pre-assumed level of ignorance, there would be nothing to learn. By setting our intention to learning we are simultaneously and implicitly acknowledging we are ignorant.If, during learning, we acknowledge ignorance, why not give ourselves to it entirely? Champion the mindset of absolute ignorance. It doesn’t mean we are, but if we embrace the mindset we are, in a sense, maximizing our ability to soak up new knowledge in that learning moment by emptying everything else.Yet, adults have expectations heaped upon them, directly and implied, via countless signals in society and the workplace. Regardless of how much we invest in meeting those expectations, the pathway to “success” is poorly defined, inconsistent, and subject to the whims of powerful people, whether that is the job interview process, the fickle winds of social media, or an educational system with degrees that don’t reflect capability or readiness. These environments are toxic to begin with, then sprinkle in a dash of completely reasonable inexperience and ignorance, and the flames of shame are ablaze. We want to avoid the pain of shame, therefore we avoid ignorance, which hinders learning and growth.However, the responsibility to embrace ignorance is not only on the individual. Everyone can show up in ways that celebrate ignorance and minimize the feelings of shame. We should all be asking, “How can I normalize ignorance”?There are ways to do this. I attempt, while not ever being perfect, to promote comfortable ignorance in my team culture through a few skills and practices.

How to promote inexperience and ignorance to ignite growth and learning with two primary skills. Social awareness. If a leader wants people on their team to feel comfortable saying “I don’t know” or “I have never done that before” or to share a crazy new idea that might break with norms, they must master social awareness.Being socially aware is being able to sense unspoken emotions and needs in others and being able to read relationship dynamics in a group. We all mask our ignorance in different ways and are uniquely sensitive in different situations to our ignorance. A person may be fine saying they know nothing about cakes, but when it comes to knowing about trees, something they may have expressed a passion for in the past or established even a small part of their identity around, all of a sudden they may be more reluctant to admit ignorance and therefore more unwilling to learn or listen to new ideas.An effective leader will be able to spot, and even anticipate, these shifts in personal dynamics and correctly respond to support the individual and group.Listen more than talk by always responding with a question or promptWatch facial expressions, tone, absence of participation, over-participation, and who responds to whom.Self-awareness. And discipline. We all, especially leaders, must be able to sense our own reactions to those around us and be disciplined enough to intervene in our behavior. The most important element of self-awareness is running a constant monitor of your own emotional response to the actions of words of others.To improve self-awareness, use meditation to build new neural connections and capabilities, making it easier to be present and self-aware during daily life. Even 10–15 minutes of meditation, repeated over time, will make a difference.Leaders, those with the title and those that simply act as leaders, are skilled at processing and monitoring the emotions and reactions of not only themselves but those around them and being intentional in their response. This is the labor of a leader.Four key practices that build on the foundational skills of self and social awareness.Set people goals. Every leader’s measurements of success are not business metrics or outcomes. A leader’s goals are about people; their team’s goals are about business outcomes. If a leader enters interactions with the mindset that their measure of success is a person growing, it will change the perspective on the conversation. They can enter humbly and set aside any level of expertise they think they have in a topic because that doesn’t get them closer to their goal.Ask questions. Even when you don’t want to. Train yourself to recognize the moment when you want to tell somebody something, and instead, ask them something. The more strongly you feel you need to say something, the more likely it is that you should be asking a question instead.Say yes. Even if you think something might go wrong. Remember, your personal goal is the person, and it is more important to give them an opportunity to learn. The trick as a leader is knowing when, if something were to go wrong, it won’t be devastating. Let go of control whenever you can.Model ignorance. Look for opportunities where you can demonstrate your ignorance. It takes courage to be a leader, and sometimes that courage comes in the form of being the first to admit your shortcomings and being the first to demonstrate your inexperience.

When I adopt these mindsets and practices in my personal life (I am not always able to), I have much more peace. I see politicians waging wars against each other as people that struggle as much as I do with self-worth and accomplishment. They are only trying to avoid shame, sometimes desperately. The public shame likely isn’t the worst of it either. I am sure there are unseen pressures and expectations from family and peers. I can empathize with this, and it reframes how I interpret their words and actions. I witness this same political posturing at work, in response to the lack of safety from shame were someone, especially a leader, to fail in the context of the cultural norms of our workplace. What if that person’s leader, and our executive leaders, modeled behavior that normalized acceptance of ignorance (not stupidity) and inexperience? What if world leaders modeled the same?The world would be a very different place, and I believe it would be better.What else can we do to normalize and embrace ignorance and inexperience in order to foster growth and learning?If you want to bounce an idea around or chat through how to apply any of these ideas to a current scenario, please follow me and leave a comment or message me on LinkedIn!