There’s nothing better than the summertime. The gleaming rays of sunshine are like an outdoor invitation to happiness. The warm air covers your skin with the perfect mix of vitamin D and stress relief. The only thing that would increase the refreshment of this scene is a brand-new pool to jump into. But where and how do you begin?

If you’re unsure how to fund your dream pool fantasy, you’ve stumbled upon the right article. We’ll give you tips on choosing, designing, and financing your new pool.

Get ready to make a splash. Your dream pool awaits!

The first step in installing a new pool is listing all the features you wish to have. Do you want a waterfall or slide? What about an attached spa? Could a heating element make it more enjoyable?

Take the time to research pool designs online and itemize the components most important to you. Lastly, don’t forget about surrounding landscaping, pool cages, or gazebos while on the subject. Usually, the extra amenities can roll up together during the funding process.

The next step to building a new pool is to determine the type of pool it should be. In Florida, three types of in-ground pools are available for residential households. They are concrete, fiberglass, and vinyl. Each has pros and cons, as well as different costs. As the homeowner, you should assess each type carefully before deciding.

If you secure funding for your pool build before getting a quote, you will have more leverage to negotiate the final price. While many contractors offer to finance, they are more willing to give discounts when they know they will be paid in full, while you make installments to your lender instead. Plus, credit unions can offer a much better rate than any contractor.

Currently, Achieva Credit Union offers a special limited-time promo rate on a Home Equity Line of Credit (HELOC). Applying is quick and easy, and you’ll be on your way to installing your dream pool in no time.

Before installing your new pool, you should have detailed discussions with at least three vendors. In addition to the pool cost, you’ll need to know about additional fees or warranty add-ons. Furthermore, a contractor should openly inform you of their previous experiences. How long have they been in business? How many other pools have they installed? Each question provides valuable information and will help you feel more confident with your pool build.

Pool installs must work around the weather, supply availability, and you and the contractor’s schedule. Since there are many logistical pieces to the new pool install puzzle, it’s essential to get accurate timelines. You wouldn’t want to be surprised by thinking the process takes less than a week when it usually takes much longer. (Good thing the warm weather lets Floridians swim most of the year!)

We hope this article created a path in the right direction for you to build and fund your dream pool. With some research, the right questions, and proper planning, you’ll be ready to dive in sooner than you think.

Need more home renovation content? Continue following the Achieva Life Blog for additional lifestyle and finance articles.