Planting time is here for many farmers in Sampson County. Some sweet potatoes and corn have already gone into the field, others have been delayed by recent wet conditions. Tobacco in the greenhouse is being mowed to prepare for transplanting. Planting dates for other crops like soybeans and tobacco are fast approaching. Meanwhile, wheat and other small grains continue to grow, quite a bit has produced a seedhead despite frost damage. Here are a few considerations to ensure a uniform stand when going into planting this season.

Ensure your equipment is maintained and will do what you want it to do. Most farmers maintain equipment during the winter months so this may not apply to everyone, but at least give everything a look before getting into the field. It is better to find the problem before beginning planting than during planting. Once you get ready to plant, make sure that the planter is doing what it is supposed to do, plant. Ensure it is set to the correct planting depth and it is dropping seed at the right rate. Don’t be afraid to get off the tractor and dig up a few seeds to check the depth and spacing. Most farmers have technology that will adjust seeding rate from the tractor cab, but it never hurts to make sure what is being said on the screen is being matched in the field. The price of seed is high and ensuring those seeds are properly placed helps to maximize the yield potential from the start of the season.

It is important to have good soil moisture when planting. Presently, there may be too much moisture in some places, and you cannot plant in the mud. Ensuring there is moisture in the soil when the seed is planted provides favorable conditions for quick germination. Warmer weather can also provide quicker germination or a better germination rate and there looks to be some warm weather on the way shortly. Planting before a rain is also an option. If soil moisture is lacking, plant when there is rain in the forecast. By this I do not mean before a heavy rain event, this could damage the seeds in the soil or lead to crusting that could delay or prevent emergence. Some soils are more prone to crusting and, in this case, I would recommend waiting until after a rain event. Planting with a light rain in the forecast, in general, is not a bad idea.

All these considerations are taken to ensure an even and uniform stand when the crop emerges. Uniform emergence gives the crop the best chance to produce a good yield. Uniformity makes it easier for farmers to manage the crop, there are no gaps in the canopy where weeds can come through and none of the plants are being outcompeted by surrounding plants.

Taking these practices into consideration when it comes planting time with favorable conditions will help produce a uniform stand and maximize your seed. This can save some money and some time that otherwise would be spent replanting as well as reducing some stress on the farmer. Inputs are expensive so giving them the best conditions through good practices is essential.