London: Amid the controversy over Tibetan spiritual leader  the Dalai Lama’s purported viral video, the British Tibetans have condemned  China and its agents for attempting to purposefully tarnish the Tibetan  spiritual leader’s reputation and have also appealed to the BBC to provide  “genuine coverage.”

The leaders of the  group, Founder and Chair of Global Alliance for Tibet and Persecuted  Minorities, Tsering Passang, Dalha Tsering (Tibetan Community UK-Chairman  2018-2020) and Phuntsok Norbu (Tibetan Community UK - Vice Chairman, 2018 -  2020), penned a Joint Letter to the BBC over the coverage the British  broadcaster gave to Dalai Lama, over his viral video. The Tibetan community also  organized a gathering outside the BBC building, which is not so far from the  Chinese Embassy. Phuntsok Norbu, Tibetan Community UK - Vice Chairman, 2018 -  2020, spoke on the significance of this immediate gathering. Larter, Tsering  Passang read out the trio’s joint letter to the BBC and a recent Statement  issued by a group of Tibetan leaders and activists from around the world.

A group of former  leaders of the Tibetan Community in Britain to the BBC’s Portfolio Head of  Audiences, Digital on April 16, in the joint letter, stated, “As a world-class  public-funded media broadcasting house, we were deeply dismayed that the BBC  would give so much heed to a few seconds of ill-intentioned “doctored” viral  footage, clearly masterminded by CCP agents with the object of defaming our  spiritual leader His Holiness the Dalai Lama.”

They added, “We  are writing to draw your kind attention that the Tibetan Community has been  deeply hurt by the BBC’s recent coverage vis-a-vis His Holiness the Dalai Lama  and his genuine compassionate greeting and interaction with an Indian student.”

“We would have  expected that in being a respected world-class media house, the BBC would have  proactively engaged in ensuring a credible, clear-sighted, and serious  investigative journalistic piece, rather than running the story in the same  manner of a sensationalist wildfire, as the rest of the tabloid media did,” the  group of former leaders of the Tibetan Community in Britain stated further.

The statement  added, “As you will know, His Holiness the Dalai Lama, a Nobel Peace laureate,  is not only fond of the BBC, but significantly, he highly respects and values  it for its authenticity, quality, and commitment to the truth. Even though  repercussions from the recent coverage are yet to be fully known, it is evident  that for Tibetans, aware of the playful and benign nature of His Holiness, that  the BBC’s coverage and furtherance of such clear disinformation has been  perceived as a collective betrayal and stab to our hearts.”

The Tibetans then  moved to the Chinese Embassy to stage a protest and rally after the brief  presentation outside the BBC. The protest, which was organised at short notice,  drew more than 100 Tibetans from far-flung areas of the nation.

Speaking in  support of the Dalai Lama, speakers also urged the public and media to  comprehend the full context of what had occurred, what the Tibetan spiritual  leader stands for, as well as his contributions to the world, rather than  buying into China’s propaganda through its purposefully “doctored” video clip. (ANI)

Also Read:‘Bear more children - they’re like consumer durables’, Chinese economist Chen Wenling’s remark sparks backlash