Greetings from the Great Bend Public Library! Don’t forget this Saturday, April 15, we have a very special Dudes and Donuts Story Time. Grab your favorite dad, grandpa, neighbor, or friend, and bring them for some fun with stories, songs, and crafts—and don’t forget the yummy doughnuts—starting at 10:30 a.m.

We have a couple events on Monday at 4 p.m. For this month’s Messy Art Monday, we’ll be making word art in honor of National Poetry Month. At the same time, teens will be learning how to turn trash into treasure with our Bottle Busters installment of Upcycle It! Transform old, plastic bottles into a cool place to keep your stuff and more.

Tuesday we have several events, starting with our regular Story Time at 10:30 a.m., followed by Tech Time at 11 a.m. Later that evening we have our Open Book Club. This month we will be reading “The Maid” by Nita Prose. Copies are still available at the front desk if you would like to read it over the weekend and join us for the discussion next Tuesday at 7 p.m.

On Thursday Luna, our reading partner dog, will be here from 3:30-5 p.m. to hear stories. She will be here every Thursday in April before taking a brief break to get ready for summer, so come read to her while you can! Thursday evening will start off with Crochet Club at 4 p.m. for all ages and then at 5:30 p.m. is our next Teen Manga and Anime Club. This month, in addition to discussing and watching the ultra-popular series “Naruto,” we will also be making our very own ninja clan headbands. Also happening that evening starting at 6 p.m. is our Third Thursday Speaker: Jason Lindstrom. Mr. Lindstrom will be here to discuss the National Parks System, including his personal experiences and tips for planning a National Parks trip.

Lastly, next Friday, April 21, we have our next Teen Cafe from 3:30-4:45 p.m. Every month during the Teen Cafe teens can come by the Teen Spot for tasty drinks and a fun activity. This month we will be making bubble paintings, which can be fun art for your walls or great homemade gifts for Mother’s Day.

To see what else we’re up to at the library, visit our Facebook page and our website, greatbendpl.info.

You can also message us on Facebook, email us at gbcirc@gmail.com, or give us a call at 620-792-2409 for any questions about our programming or services.

By Hannah Grippin, the outreach manager at the Great Bend Public Library.