“Cath-Lit Live!” features brief interviews with Catholic authors who are releasing new books. Hosted by Catholic author and speaker Amy J. Cattapan, “Cath-Lit Live!” gives viewers a glimpse into the latest Catholic books while getting to know a bit about the author as well.

What could challenge a dragon more than being human? When a curse turns Vern human, he does not have time to deal with it; Sister Grace’s cousin has gone missing in the Mundane. Besides, how hard could humaning be? He might even enjoy it for a while. But from stubbed toes to fever dreams of emus, he discovers that humaning is not as easy as it seems. When women throw themselves at him, the unfamiliar hormones catch him off guard – especially because his heart, dragon and human, belongs to the nun who is his best friend. Can he master his new emotions and solve the mystery before Grace becomes the kidnapper’s next victim?

By day, Karina Fabian freelance writes business articles. After hours, she’s a snarky dragon who thinks he saves the world all too regularly, a psychic who’s desperate to save his world; a zombie exterminator who just wants her world clear of undead vermin, and Catholic religious sisters whose callings have taken them off our world. She enjoys Florida life with her husband, Rob. They have four adult children, two dogs, and a rocket company. Last year, she started taking standup comedy classes because she’s a glutton for punishment.

You can catch “Cath-Lit Live” live on A. J. Cattapan’s author Facebook page. Recorded versions of the show will also be available to watch later on her YouTube channel and Instagram.

Amy (A. J.) Cattapan, DM, Ed.D., is an award-winning author, speaker, and middle school English teacher. Her YA novel Angelhood and her middle grade book Seven Riddles to Nowhere have won multiple awards, and her book on combatting teacher burnout releases in 2021 from Ave Maria Press. She is also the host of Cath-Lit Live, where she interviews Catholic authors about their new releases.