Golden State Warriors forward Draymond Green said in a recent interview with Andscape’s Marc Spears that he hopes to play another four or five seasons before retiring.

Green, 33, signed a four-year, $100 million extension with the Warriors in 2019. He has a $27.6 million player option to remain with Golden State next season, but could reject it and become a free agent this summer.

“I want to play another four or five more years,” Green said. “That would be enough for me.”

Speaking on Stephen A. Smith’s “Know Mercy” podcast in January, Green said that 15 seasons was his preferred lifespan in the NBA. Next season will be his 12th.

Following Green’s preseason punch of teammate Jordan Poole, questions surfaced whether Green and the Warriors have mutual interest in being together beyond this season. If it were up to Green, however, the decision would be simple.

“It’s incredible when you look at the amount of guys who’ve played for only one team,” Green said. “You can look around the NBA right now. There are five guys that’ve been on a team for 11 years-plus. We have three of them. It’s a very rare thing. There’s 470, 480 players in the NBA? There are five guys that've been with his team for 11 years-plus. That’s amazing. So, you don’t just give that away. So, absolutely I’d be interested in that.”

Teammates Stephen Curry and Klay Thompson are in their 14th and 12th seasons, respectively, although Thompson didn’t play in two of them because of ACL and Achilles injuries.

Green, represented by agent Rich Paul, also revealed that his current contract status doesn’t concern him, and if free agency is in his near future, he’ll handle it accordingly.

Stephen Curry has not only led a Warriors resurgence since entering the league, he has changed the game with his long-distance shooting.

“I have a great agent, the best agent in the business,” Green said. “That’s why you align yourself with an incredible agent, because they handle the business. I play basketball. That’s what I want."