The Department of Labor and Employment-Bureau of Local Employment, in its newly published Job and Labor Market Forecast for 2022-2025, projected 164 in-demand jobs across the country,.

They are mainly in the field of medicine, construction and engineering, information technology and business process outsourcing, platform-based work, and tourism and services.

DoLE-BLE said that the current number of in-demand jobs is much higher than the 95 occupations deemed in-demand in its previous report for 2017-2022, based on collated data from all regional DOLE offices.

In Metro Manila alone, many of the listed in-demand occupations revolve around IT and BPO industries, such as customer service representatives, IT specialists, program developers, and virtual assistants, but medical practitioners, nutritionists, and therapists are also considered in-demand in the region.

The agency also listed down jobs in IT and platform industries, creatives and even green industries as emerging jobs across the region. Citing online employment platform LinkedIn, these jobs have been seen as growing industries that could create more jobs in the region.

“We see the green economy reinforcing its call to address climate change concerns with jobs requiring green skills and companies across sectors adopting environmentally sustainable practices; the digital economy with a growing demand as businesses develop more digital products and services building up their IT network and infrastructure; and the creative industry increasing activities driven by the generation and exploitation of knowledge and information,” the report reads.

DoLE-BLE also noted a similar emerging growth in jobs under freelance or gig economy and digital economy, citing the adjustments that were implemented during the height of the Covid-19 pandemic and how it improved work systems.

Some of these jobs include virtual assistants, social media and digital marketers, IT specialists, software engineers, delivery riders, online sellers and call center agents.

“The crisis has upended the traditional 9-5 working world and caused many blue- and white-collar employees to pursue digital and gig work for additional – or even primary – income during these unprecedented times. The gig economy offers job flexibility that is more appealing and becoming more and more necessary to workers,” the report reads.

Meanwhile, 20 occupations, ranging from chemical engineering technician, geologist, agriculturist, culinary, medical technologist and even lawyers are classified by DoLE-BLE as ‘hard-to-fill’ occupations, citing lack of qualified hires, access to transportation to its location, work schedule, and that applicants prefer working on these industries abroad.

The report also notably highlighted the need to enhance the ‘soft skills’ of the workforce, with some of these soft skills even part of the list of 21st Century Skills under the Philippine Talent Map initiative, as discussed by DoLE Regional Offices.

These include teamwork, decision-making, workplace ethics, planning and organizing, multi-tasking and creative problem-solving. Other needed skills include English and Math functional skills, English comprehension, and innovation.

“While hard skills demonstrate a candidate’s technical ability to fulfill the job requirements, soft skills demonstrate a candidate’s work ethic and character, including how well of a fit they are for the company’s culture and goals,” DoLE-BLE said.

Read more Daily Tribune stories at: https://tribune.net.ph/