Now we want to turn up the cozy factor in our homes. The coziness factor comes in different guises, from cozy interior details to an overall warm atmosphere. When it comes to our kitchen environments, the rural aesthetic often acts as inspiration, characterized by charm and calm. Here we take a closer look at country kitchens in particular and how you best interpret the style.

Simple and genuine are two clear keywords for a country-style kitchen. No detail feels overwhelming and the peaceful atmosphere is constantly present. Here, old and new meet in a pleasant mix, from solid natural materials to robust solutions, which resonate well with the Scandinavian aesthetic and the interest in preloved details.

When it comes to wall color, the country kitchen is forgiving. The starting point is often neutral, with different shades and influences from natural materials. On the other hand, a country kitchen often draws inspiration from retro environments and rustic kitchens, where moody colors and very yellow-brown varieties are visible. Contemporary country-style kitchen solutions capture the essence of old and new in one environment – ​​think wall color in a nostalgic palette among neutral, sometimes more minimalist, details.

Pärlspont is a common wooden panel that is often used to enhance the nostalgic feeling. Pärlspont can be seen both in furniture, walls, and ceilings, suitable in all rooms of the home – including the kitchen. When launched in the 1800s, the innovation was purely practical, with the aim of sealing cracks and obscuring noticeable wear.

Always start with your existing kitchen and overall interior design. A kitchen transformation is often costly, so strive for a sustainable target image that fits in and feels right both this season and next.

If you want to add pearl pontoons, remember that a spirit level is required. The key to a neat result is that the panels are mounted straight – hire help if necessary.

Not sure if the style feels right for you? Don’t forget the importance of testing yourself. Start small through smaller details before fully dedicating yourself.