I requested this ARC because the cover and title caught my eye; the blurb clinched the matter. I did not, however, expect the writing to be this good–I read the second half literally overnight. Who needs sleep?

Reader beware: illness and death, on page; rape of a child, on page; murder; violence; forced sterilization; a hanging. This is most certainly a love story with a HEA, but there’s too much tragedy and too much loss, and so, it doesn’t fit within modern genre romance it would have fit well with the sagas of the 70s and 80s, though– even though there is no purple prose whatsoever.

After a longish author’s note that serves to contextualize both the characters in the novel and how it came to be written, the prologue (also long; the two combined are easily forty pages), details the forced transition of Lucinda “Lou” Taylor, the protected and cherished daughter of a well-to-do family in Memphis, into Tempa, a child prostitute in an upscale brothel in Butte. It is hard reading; even though the rapes are not detailed on the page, Lou’s pain and despair are vivid.

The writing, however, pulls the reader in. Lou is a fanciful creature, holding tight to the bright light of her soul, through the loss of family and innocence, determined to survive.

But at what cost, she doesn’t know yet.

Once she’d been Lou – an innocent, idealistic schoolgirl growing up in a wonderland of kindness and love with dreams of becoming a teacher…

No longer young or fresh, Tempa is staring face to face with the whore’s unholy trinity: alcoholism, drug abuse and suicide. While her best friend, Belle, has chosen laudanum, Tempa finds escape in literature, which she shares with the illiterate prostitutes in a book club-like setting at the cribs. Forced into prostitution as a girl after losing her family to yellow fever, Tempa also retains a sense of self-worth by using her knowledge of herbs to heal others.

When she nurses Henry—a good-natured, young German immigrant on the run from a man who has reason to want him dead—Tempa sees a future she longs for but cannot allow herself to claim. So when the noose tightens around Henry’s neck, she ransoms her life for his.

At once a sweeping love story and a harrowing account of the harshness of the American Old West, DESERT PHOENIX is the tale of a prostitute who gains an unlikely ally in her struggle for physical and emotional survival. Based on local history and family stories passed down from Bruggeman’s grandfather, this engaging and evocative novel for fans of Kristin Hannah and Kate Quinn interweaves Tempa’s rise from the ashes of her old life with Henry’s turbulent passage into manhood.

The story is told in third person past tense, from the alternating points of view of Tempa and Henry, with the occasional flashback to fill in their backstories. (Fair warning: some of those flashbacks are heart-wrenching.) The narrative doesn’t shy away from the violence and struggle of life in a desert mining town at the turn of the twentieth century, but Ms Bruggeman chooses well where to linger and where to gloss over.

These are two people who work hard to keep hope alive in a world boiling with threats and brimming with loss. She teaches him to read. He teaches her to love. And they alternatively save and support each other as life batters them.

Their falling in love with each other is absolutely lovely, slow and inevitable, as weeks and then months pass, even as there is a known threat hanging over their heads; even as the harshness of life grinds them down. And the strength and purity of that love as external forces pull them apart is something to behold.

This is the story of two remarkable souls finding each other through the daily fight to survive against the harshness of a world punctuated by losses; a story made beautiful and memorable through the author’s words. Tempa’s and Henry’s “happily ever after” is hard won, and the epilogue is both bittersweet and perfect.

Desert Phoenix is a self-published novel based on family lore, and it’s also apparently only the author’s second published work. While there is a bit of self-indulgence in the author’s note at the beginning, and the photographs inserted into the text should have all been collected at the end of the novel (along with the aforementioned author’s note), the writing is polished, and the characterizations haunting.

Aside from Tempa and Henry, Ms Bruggeman fills the pages with all manner of people; some are vile, some are pure, some are greedy, some are generous and kind, and some are the messy stew of both that most ordinary people are, as they do what they can to keep soul and body together in a harsh and hostile world.

I found the treatment of prostitution fairly nuanced, and I appreciated the world-building; it’s obvious that there is a lot of research behind the novel, but it does its work in the background, without clogging up the narrative. And while the book is over 400 pages long, I don’t believe there is much here that could be cut without lessening the overall impact of the story.

Desert Phoenix gets 8.25 out of 10.

I have indulged myself with a few quotes below; they are all from Henry’s point of view.

“He truly understood the appeal of whiskey now. Liquid fire would burn away the bitter taste in his mouth, turn her next words to ashes in his ears, deaden the blows. But to what end; it wouldn’t change a thing.”

“Even if there were words Henry could utter to blot out the ugliness, he could not have pushed them past the lump in his throat. So, he simply held her as she continued to throw the facts at him in great bloody chunks.”

“She had chosen another man–a better man. He could bear it because she was out of the cribs. She was safe. She was respectable to society. Relief trumped bitterness. Gratitude trumped grief.”

“Lou had given him so many gifts: the gift of her healing hands, the gift of ineffable joy. Most of all she had given him the gift of herself. That he’d been privileged to possess even a small part of this remarkable lady still astounded him and humbled him to the core.”