Jehovah's Witnesses held their first-ever in-person Jamaican Creole (Patois) Circuit Assembly on March 18, 2023, at their Assembly Hall in Salt Marsh, Trelawny, under the theme "Jehovah's United Family" ("Jeouva Fambili A Wok Tugeda Az Wan").

The event drew 694 attendees from as far as Kingston, who listened to Bible discourses, sang songs of praise to their God, and fellowshipped with each other in what many described as the "language of their heart."

Though the acceptability of patois as a language is still debated, Jehovah's Witnesses take to heart the words of Revelation 14:6, which states in part that the good news should be declared, "...to every nation and tribe and tongue and people."

To meet the need for literature in Jamaican Creole, a Remote Translation Office (RTO) was established in 2016. Presently, a team of volunteers continues to work from this office, translating from English to Jamaican Creole the publications used by the Witnesses in their public ministry and congregation meetings.

The first Jamaican Creole Congregation was formed in January 2019. Currently, there are 29 Jamaican Creole congregations and two groups organised in two circuits in Jamaica — where the sermon is delivered in patois and those gathered communicate in the Jamaican dialect.

In addition, there are 13 congregations and two groups in the US, one group in Canada, one congregation in England, and one group in Curacao whose worship is carried out entirely in Jamaican Creole.

Peter Scudamore, National Spokesman for the country of Jamaica, said, "March 18, 2023, was truly a historic milestone for Jehovah's Witnesses in Jamaica. The success of this event is testimony to the fact that our efforts to reach unofficial language groups have not been in vain."

Donovan Sterling expressed a similar sentiment, saying, "I am over the moon; I can't believe I have lived to see the first one ever! I am so excited to see how Jehovah is using the language to bring praise to his name and to give people an opportunity to learn about him in the language they are most comfortable in."