Paige Spiranac, the golfer and influencer, is no stranger to posting stunning photos on Instagram; along with golfing a great game, it's part of the role she plays with fans. In fact, she just received an amazing new opportunity. Spiranac is the 2022 cover-girl for Maxim's Hot 100 Issue. She is the first athlete to hold this honor. In the official announcement, Spiranac posed in a black bathing suit and a yellow button down, and also a red swimsuit. She captioned it: "I think I broke IG lol I went to check my post and it was gone so let's try this again! I am so honored by being named the sexiest woman alive by @maximmag this year! When I got the I kept asking them, 'are you sure?' because I was truly in disbelief. To me being sexy is about confidence and feeling comfortable in your own skin. I've always tried to stay true to myself though out my unconventional path and now I'm so proud to be following so many amazing women who carried the title in years before me. Thank you again Maxim for this moment and to @gilles_bensimon for these beautiful pictures!" How does she stay so fit? Read on to see 5 ways Paige Spiranac stays in shape and the photos that prove they work—and to get beach-ready yourself, don't miss these essential 30 Best-Ever Celebrity Bathing Suit Photos!

Spiranac is a professional golfer. Naturally, that is a big part of her staying in shape. She posted this reel on Instagram of herself giving golf tips to her followers. She advised people to, "Close your stance slightly. Square your shoulders. Feel like your coming down more from the inside.  Swing out to the right. Release the club head."

Golf isn't the only sport Spiranac plays. She is also a fan of tennis. Spiranac talked about it in this Instagram post. "I picked up tennis recently and let me tell you my 'golf' wardrobe is thriving on the court… but my body, not so much. I've been so sore after hitting! I'm working muscles I didn't even know I had."df44d9eab23ea271ddde7545ae2c09ec

Being an athlete, Spiranac has to eat healthy. However, she doesn't like to restirct herself too much. In this Instagram post, Spiranac talked about her approach to health. "I struggle with diet to be honest," she wrote. "I love my sweets and carbs, but I make sure to never deprive myself and listen to my body."

In the same Instagram post, Spiranac talked about how her approach to exercise has changed. She says that she isn't super strict with herself, and she's also dedicated. "I've learned I don't have to be crazy strict to achieve my fitness goals. I've also kicked it up with my workouts and am excited to see how my body is going to change in the next couple months!

Spiranac loves to spend time outside. One thing she likes to do is go hiking. She posted tthis photo on Instagram of herself hiking on a trail. She captioned the post,"Morning hike. Happy and healthy." "You can also alternate periods of brisk walking with leisurely walking. This type of interval training has many benefits, such as improving cardiovascular fitness and burning more calories than regular walking. And interval training can be done in less time than regular walking," says the  Mayo Clinic