Renovations are complete at the Teen Center at the Cliff Hagan Boys and Girls Club. The facility includes virtual reality headsets, a music studio, STEM equipment, and gaming stations — all in an effort to use technology to combine fun and learning for local students.

CEO Steve Winkler said the room combines the increasing importance of preparing teenagers in their technology skills with collaborative work and innovative thinking.

The Teen Center includes an open room with an iWall system that allows users to play motion games, along with a room filled with Xbox gaming systems. Both are used to help teens compete with other Clubs across the state.

“Right now, we are in competition. Every month, they travel to a different Club in Kentucky and they compete. Right now we are in second place,” said Director of Program Services Katharine Francis.

While there is a gaming side to the technology, Francis said that they are also using the systems for educational purposes. The Oculus VR headset introduces students to different workforce tools, such as changing a tire, as the “work” alongside a professional through the headset.

Francis said that allows teens to start looking for different professions before they enter Owensboro Community and Technical College or workforce programs.

The Teen Center’s STEM room has 3D printers and DoBots, equipment that has been programmed by the students to build things and move some small objects.

Since implementing everything, Francis said they have noticed a positive uptick in behavior from all their students, who are showing an increasing sense of responsibility.

Winkler said the plan is currently to add Teen Centers in all the other Cliff Hagan locations throughout their system.

“We’ve got some of the gaming stuff bought for each of our clubs. We just went through that yesterday and got all that purchased. I think what we have left to purchase are some DoBots and some printers,” he said.

Chris Poynter, President of the Owensboro location’s board, said from his purview offering learning through new technology is of increasing importance and is needed to help the students get ahead of the curve.

“It’s about adapting to society and making sure that kids have the opportunity and the resources necessary to continue to be successful as our society evolves,” Poynter said.