Govt Giving Loan of Rs 1 Lakh Under PM Mudra Yojana? PIB Fact Check Debunks Fake Claim

Nagaland State Lottery Result Today 6 PM Live, Dear Hill Wednesday Lottery Sambad Result of 19.04.2023, Watch Live Lucky Draw Winners List

Teacher Records Sex Videos Inside UK Schools! Wales Woman Films XXX Clips of Herself Masturbating With Vibrator in School Classroom and Toilet, Probe On

Who Is Nandini Gupta? Know About Newly-Crowned Miss India 2023 From Rajasthan Ready to Represent Country In Miss World 2024 (View Photos)

The Femina Miss India 2023 was a star-studded affair. The pageant was judged by Neha Dhupia, Laishram Sarita Devi, Terence Lewis, Harshavardhan Kulkarni and Rocky Star and Namrata Joshipura.

This year, Nandini Gupta won the title of Miss India, who hails from Rajasthan. She was crowned the Femina Miss India World 2023 in a grand ceremony on April 15. Having said that, Shreya Poonja from Delhi became the first runner-up, and Manipur's Thounaojam Strela Luwang grabbed the third spot. However, just in case you want to know all about Nandini, who will represent India at Miss World pageant, fret not, as we've got you covered. Let's check out some important deets about our Miss India 2023. Nandini Gupta Wins Femina Miss India World 2023; Shreya Poonja and Thounaojam Strela Luwang Crowned Runners-Up!Nandini Gupta is from Kota. She happens to be just 19-years-old and always dreamt of being Miss India since she was 10. Reportedly, educational qualification wise, she has completed her schooling from St Paul's Senior Secondary School. She also holds a degree in business management from Lala Lajpat Rai College.

In a conversation with the pageant, Nandini had revealed that it's Ratan Tata and Priyanka Chopra, who inspire her. “The most influential person in my life is Sir Ratan Tata, the man who does everything for humanity and donates most of it to charity. Loved by millions and always grounded,” she mentioned. Miss India 2023 Winner Is Nandini Gupta of Rajasthan, To Represent at Miss World 2024 (View Pics From Femina Miss World India Finale).

"Miss World 2000 Priyanka Chopra, who received the national title at a very young age, likewise she made India proud at the National and International level. She gave back to society and excelled as an actor. She inspires people, has a great sense of humour and has the zeal to gain more as she grows,” she added.

After being crowned as Miss India 2023, Nandini Gupta will now represent India at the 71st edition of the Miss World pageant, which will be taking place in the United Arab Emirates. Lastly, congratulations to Gupta for making India proud.

(The above story first appeared on LatestLY on Apr 17, 2023 10:48 AM IST. For more news and updates on politics, world, sports, entertainment and lifestyle, log on to our website latestly.com).

Cricket

Kane Williamson Likely to Get Ruled Out From ODI World Cup After Suffering Knee Injury During IPL 2023: Report

Fashion

Alia Bhatt, Deepika Padukone and Anushka Sharma - Bollywood Beauties Who Love Their Denim Jackets

Fashion

Malaika Arora, Priyanka Chopra's White Gowns That Are Perfect for a Bride!

Fashion

Alia Bhatt, Priyanka Chopra's Midi Dresses That You Can Wear in Summers!

'It Takes Time To Settle Down in Marriage': Supreme Court Refuses To Use Powers of Article 142 To Dissolve 40-Day Union of CoupleTeacher Records Sex Videos Inside UK Schools! Wales Woman Films XXX Clips of Herself Masturbating With Vibrator in School Classroom and Toilet, Probe OnHeatwave in April in Asian History: Severe Heatwave Causes Deaths, School Closures in India, Record-Breaking Temperatures in ChinaChandra Grahan 2023 Date and Time: All You Need to Know About Forthcoming Penumbral Lunar Eclipse Event			Read More

Mumbai Water Cut News Update: Good News for Mumbaikars! BMC Rolls Back 15% Water Cut Decision, Normal Supply of Water To Begin From April 23Peacock Attacks Two Persons Stealing Eggs From Its Nest, Rare Retaliation Video of Blue Bird Goes ViralMadhya Pradesh Train Collision: Two Goods Trains Collide With Each Other Near Singhpur Railway Station in Shahdol; Motormen Injured, Two Railway Workers Feared Trapped (See Pics)Salary Hike for Cognizant Employees: IT Giant Announces Appraisal, Raises Pay of Over 3 Lakh Workers in Third Increase in Last 18 MonthsDisney Layoffs 2023: Entertainment Giant Planning Another Round of Sackings, To Eliminate Thousands of Jobs This Month, Say Reports

Today's Trends

Benadryl TikTok Challenge: What Is the Viral Benadryl Challenge? Second Death Due to Dangerous Trend As Johnson & Johnson Issues Statement Over Dangers of Online Challenge

Amid Fear of Layoffs, Bain Offering New Recruits USD 20,000 To Become Yoga Instructors, Go on Safari in Bid To Delay Their Start Dates: Report

Salary Hike for Cognizant Employees: IT Giant Announces Appraisal, Raises Pay of Over 3 Lakh Workers in Third Increase in Last 18 Months

Disney Layoffs 2023: Entertainment Giant Planning Another Round of Sackings, To Eliminate Thousands of Jobs This Month, Say Reports

Eid al-Fitr 2023 Fashion Ideas: Kisi Ka Bhai Kisi Ki Jaan's Palak Tiwari Has the Perfect Wardrobe for the Occasion!Urfi Javed XXX-Plicit Topless Video Shows Influencer Chop Her Beaded 'Hair' in a Super Crazy Reel Inspired by KimhekimWhat Type of Bra Brie Larson Is Wearing Under Summer Tank Top As Carol Danvers? Actress Replies to Twitterati, Wins Over the Internet!