A blog for Sean Gaffney to review manga, anime, cartoons, and occasionally to ramble on about diverse and sundry notions.   But yeah, mostly manga reviews.

Raven of the Inner Palace, Vol. 2

By Kouko Shirakawa and Ayuko. Released in Japan as “Kōkyū no Karasu” by Shueisha Orange Bunko. Released in North America by Airship. Translated by Amelia Mason.

I mentioned last time that this was a mystery series, and that’s still true here.  The book is set up so that we have the chapter itself, which is a self-contained “a ghost is causing problems” thing for Jusetsu to deal with, but each chapter also adds to the overall narrative of Jusetsu and the Emperor getting closer to each other despite the entire world seeming to throw “do not do this” signs at them.  But this second volume also amps up another part of this series, which is the horror.  There is some deeply creepy shit going on here, and honestly the chapter that began with a court maid being found dead with her throat ripped out was on the milder end of the spectrum.  These ghosts have issues, and just because Jusetsu is here to try to get them to the afterlife doesn’t mean she’s always going to succeed.  Especially since it seems she has a distaff counterpart, the owl to her raven.  And he’s trying to kill her.

The first story here has Jusetsu meet a young eunuch who is tormented by a ghost that only he can see, one that keeps apologizing in the direction of the concubine of that quarters.  Who is the ghost and what does it have to do with gorgeous blue feathers?  In the second story (and the most horrific of the lot), an old woman begs Jusetsu to try to put to rest the spirit of a young concubine who drowned herself, but the main issue is that some people, even when grieving, have to make it all about them.  The third story has a mask with holes in the eyes which, when put on, shows a ghost who seems to be very interested in a specific kind of lute playing.  And the final story has Jusetsu get involved with a concubine who has been somewhat off the rails since her brother died, and who will accept any help in order to get her brother back.

It’s very odd seeing the inner narrative push back against what we, as a reader, want.  Jusetsu is a kind and lonely young girl who is starting to really come out of her shell now that she’s surrounded by people.  She’s got a cute servant girl, a nice bodyguard, an older woman to give (wordless, her tongue was cut out) advice, and of course the Emperor dropping by all the time, seemingly infatuated with her.  This is definitely good in an emotional way.  But man, the backstory and the actions of others within the narrative have it being painted as this massive disaster, and honestly you can’t help but since every time she shows empathy to someone new and yet another person reminds her “the raven consort but always be alone”.  And then there’s the end of the boo, which gives her her very own nemesis, who is going to murder her for her own good.  Well, for the raven’s own good.  Jusetsu is just unfortunate baggage.

As you can imagine, these are very good books.  If you like your fantasy dark and don’t mind some creepy ghosts, definitely get this.

Did you enjoy this article? Consider supporting us.

a sister’s all you need

abandoned heiress gets rich with alchemy and scores an enemy general

alchemist who survived now dreams of a quiet city life

alice in the country of hearts

alya sometimes hides her feelings in russian

another world’s zombie apocalypse is not my problem

anything and something

apparently it’s my fault that my husband has the head of a beast

are you ok with a slightly older girlfriend?

as the villainess i reject these happy-bad endings

attack on titan before the fall

breasts are my favorite things in the world!

by the grace of the gods

can someone please explain what’s going on?!

champions of justice & the supreme ruler of evil

chitose is in the ramune bottle

didn’t I say to make my abilities average in the next life?!

dirty way to destroy the goddess’s heroes

do you love your mom?

don’t disturb me and him please

even dogs go to other worlds

executioner and her way of life

for the kid i saw in my dreams

forget being the villainess i want to be an adventurer

formerly the fallen daughter of the duke

from the new world

genius prince’s guide to raising a nation out of debt

go for it nakamura

go with the clouds north by northwest

greatest demon lord is reborn as a typical nobody

hanako and the terror of allegory

hero and his elf bride open a pizza parlor in another world

high school prodigies have it easy even in another world

how heavy are the dumbbells you lift?

how not to summon a demon lord

how to melt the ice queen’s heart

i don’t like you at all big brother

i hate you more than anyone!

i married my best friend to shut my parents up

i refuse to be your enemy!

i saved too many girls and caused the apocalypse

i want to eat your pancreas

i will cook with my fluffy friends

i’d rather have a cat than a harem!

i’ll never set foot in that house again!

i’m in love with the villainess

i’m the villainess so i’m taming the final boss

if it’s for my daughter i’d even defeat a demon lord

if the rpg world had social media

in another world with my smartphone

in the land of leadale

in this corner of the world

is it wrong to try to pick up girls in a dungeon?

jk haru is a sex worker in another world

juana and the dragonewts’ seven kingdoms

kiss him not me

kiss me at the stroke of midnight

last and first idol

last of the mohicans

love me love me not

magic in this other world is too far behind!

master of ragnarok and blesser of einherjar

may these leaden battlegrounds leave no trace

my friend’s little sister has it in for me!

my next life as a villainess

my quiet blacksmith life in another world

my stepmom’s daughter is my ex

my youth romantic comedy is wrong as i expected

npcs in this village sim game must be real

of the red the light and the ayakashi

our crappy social game club is gonna make the most epic game

our last crusade or the rise of a new world

please tell me galko-chan

raven of the inner palace

reign of the seven spellblades

reincarnated as the last of my kind

rokka: braves of the six flowers

sacrificial princess and the king of beasts

secretly i’ve been suffering about being sexless

seven princes of the thousand year labyrinth

she and her cat

she professed herself pupil of the wise man

she’s the cutest but we’re just friends

sidekick never gets the girl

so i’m a spider so what?

so you want to live the slow life

sorry for my familiar

suppose a kid from the last dungeon boonies moved to a starter town

surviving in another world as a villainess fox girl

that time i got reincarnated as a slime

there was no secret evil-fighting organization

there’s no way a side character like me could be popular right?

though i am an inept villainess

turning the tables on the seatmate killer

until death do us part

walking my second path in life

way of the househusband

welcome to the ballroom

welcome to the erotic bookstore

what did you eat yesterday

world of otome games is tough for mobs

yamada-kun and the seven witches

you like me don’t you?

Raven of the Inner Palace LN 2 review:   https://t.co/DuOhz59o1m  OK, this is awesome.   #mayiaskforonefinalthing  The 11th  #goonshow  in the Vintage Goons series is The Great Bank of England Robbery, based on the 29th show of the…  https://t.co/NZkH1YioO6  So, how many subgenres of "Villainess" have we seen to date?  Off the top of my head:

1) Basic.  World is an otome…  https://t.co/320wEAMUgZ