Hour Loop (NASDAQ:HOUR – Get Rating) is one of 53 public companies in the “Catalog & mail – order houses” industry, but how does it compare to its rivals? We will compare Hour Loop to similar companies based on the strength of its dividends, analyst recommendations, risk, valuation, profitability, institutional ownership and earnings.

This is a breakdown of recent ratings for Hour Loop and its rivals, as provided by MarketBeat.com.

Hour Loop presently has a consensus target price of $2.00, suggesting a potential upside of 22.70%. As a group, “Catalog & mail – order houses” companies have a potential upside of 47.31%. Given Hour Loop’s rivals stronger consensus rating and  higher probable upside, analysts plainly believe Hour Loop has less favorable growth aspects than its rivals.

This table compares Hour Loop and its rivals revenue, earnings per share and valuation.

Hour Loop’s rivals have higher revenue, but lower earnings than Hour Loop. Hour Loop is trading at a lower price-to-earnings ratio than its rivals, indicating that it is currently more affordable than other companies in its industry.

Hour Loop has a beta of 1.78, suggesting that its share price is 78% more volatile than the S&P 500. Comparatively, Hour Loop’s rivals have a beta of 0.92, suggesting that their average share price is 8% less volatile than the S&P 500.

0.6% of Hour Loop shares are held by institutional investors. Comparatively, 46.3% of shares of all “Catalog & mail – order houses” companies are held by institutional investors. 95.1% of Hour Loop shares are held by insiders. Comparatively, 27.5% of shares of all “Catalog & mail – order houses” companies are held by insiders. Strong institutional ownership is an indication that hedge funds, large money managers and endowments believe a company will outperform the market over the long term.

This table compares Hour Loop and its rivals’ net margins, return on equity and return on assets.

Hour Loop rivals beat Hour Loop on 7 of the 13 factors compared.

Hour Loop, Inc., an online retailer, engages in e-commerce retailing in the United States. The company sells home/garden décor, toys, kitchenware, apparel, and electronics products. It sells its products through hourloop.com, amazon.com, and walmart.com. Hour Loop, Inc. was founded in 2013 and is headquartered in Redmond, Washington.

Receive News & Ratings for Hour Loop Daily - Enter your email address below to receive a concise daily summary of the latest news and analysts' ratings for Hour Loop and related companies with MarketBeat.com's FREE daily email newsletter.