Here’s the Campus Left-Wing Brainwash. “Thought reform” at American universities is real and terrifying.

When you write a book about higher education called Brutal Minds, subtitled The Dark World of Left-Wing Brainwashing in Our Universities, the obvious question presents itself: Can you provide specific examples of this so-called brainwashing?

The answer is yes. Brutal Minds is full of them—so many that the length of the book was cut by half to make it manageable.

Brainwashing examples offer themselves in the articles written by academics, by would-be academics, and by non-academics. They are published in cargo-cult journals like The Counseling Psychologist and the Journal of Student Affairs Research and Practice and in books like Multicultural and Diversity Issues in Student Affairs Practice, Identity-Based Student Activism, Rethinking College Student Development Theory Using Critical Frameworks, and Multicultural Competence in Student Affairs.

The folks who do the brainwashing are proud of what they do, serving the cause of social justice, and they share tactics and techniques with each other.

I haven’t any idea why these characters are so free with their intent, but a vast trove of brainwashing examples awaits revelation.

Initially, let’s understand what constitutes the “brainwash” and then see how these folks do it.

First, there is nothing mysterious about “brainwashing.” Oftentimes it’s now called “thought reform” or “transformative education.” You can read about it in Kathleen Taylor’s book Brainwashing: The Science of Thought Control, as well as many other places. Today, the brainwash is most closely associated with cults, with Maoist and Freirean reeducation theory, and with American higher education, which is largely informed by Paulo Freire’s crypto-Maoist approach to education.

And sometimes the Thomas More Society gets involved; example:

Disclaimer:

Opinions posted on Free Republic are those of the individual

posters and do not necessarily represent the opinion of Free Republic or its

management. All materials posted herein are protected by copyright law and the

exemption for fair use of copyrighted works.