In addition to announcing the Xiaomi 13 Ultra and Xiaomi Pad 6 series during its press event in China, the company also announced the Xiaomi Smart Band 8. Now, Xiaomi already confirmed that the Xiaomi 13 Ultra will be coming to global markets, but the other two products will likely see a global launch too.

That being said, the Xiaomi Smart Band 8 is a really interesting fitness tracker. The series came a long way since the first-gen product. It is now a proper fitness band that crosses into the smartwatch territory. It’s packed with features, and it actually looks really nice, and has a nice display.

For the first time ever, one of the company’s smart bands has a quick-release mechanism. It also comes in two (frame) colors, ‘Bright Black’ and ‘Light Gold’. It also has a metallic texture on it.

Needless to say, the thing comes in a wide variety of different straps, and even a necklace-shaped strap. You can check out various offerings in the image provided below.

When it comes to fitness and health features, it’s really well-equipped. There are over 150+ training modes available here. On top of that, you do get a smart health assistant, and continuous heart rate monitoring. Sleep tracking is also included, as is SpO2 monitoring, and period tracking.

The Smart Band 8 also has a new running bean mode, which is supposed to provide you with a more professional running experience. In addition to tracking your running data, it will provide you with 13 professional data streams, including stride frequency, stride length, ground contact vacancy ratio, ground impact force, and so on.

Having said that, the Xiaomi Smart Band 8 features a 1.62-inch 192 x 490 HD display. This display has 2.5D glass on it, and it’s an AMOLED display, which is touch-sensitive. It goes up to 600 nits when it comes to brightness.

This thing is 5ATM rated for water resistance. It’s essentially water resistant up to 50 meters. It has an optical heart rate sensor and a blood oxygen sensor, a six-axis motion sensor, and more.

This fitness tracker can serve as a camera remote for your smartphone, show you notifications, let you control music on your phone, serve as a way to reply to messages, and much more.

There are over 100 watch faces available with AOD support, and Mars Super Wallpapers are also included. A 190mAh battery sits on the inside, and it provides up to 16 days of battery life on typical usage, says Xiaomi. It’ll take you only an hour to fully charge it.

The device is equipped with Bluetooth 5.1, and it’s compatible with Android 6.0+ and iOS 12+. It comes in both regular and NFC editions. We’re not sure if the global model will offer NFC.

The Xiaomi Band 8 without NFC costs CNY239 ($35) in China, while the variant with NFC is priced at CNY279 ($40). It will be a bit more expensive globally, as per usual. The device is already on sale in China.