ShopFollow

Featuring familiar characters from ‘Star Wars’ as well as fan favorites like Mickey Mouse, Pooh and more.

UNDERCOVER has taken to Instagram to reveal an upcoming collaboration with Disney.

Based on the post, Disney fans can expect the capsule to feature various scenes and popular characters from the likes of Star Wars and even Mickey Mouse, as seen in the teased pieces. In the Instagram post, UNDERCOVER reveals a t-shirt featuring the classic Mickey Mouse cartoon over the UNDERCOVER logo. Another model wears a button-up shirt and shorts combo that appears to feature a scene from Star Wars. The beloved Yoda appears alongside R2-D2.

Mastered has also revealed additional pieces to be expected from the collection. Fans can expect outerwear like an oversized leather biker jacket with a Darth Vader graphic on the back, a Mickey Mouse satin bomber jacket and various handbags and t-shirts. According to the Instagram teaser, the collection is slated to be pre-launched at pop-ups at Hankyu Umeda, Isetan Shinjuku in Tokyo, Japan starting on April 26. The capsule will be made available at all UNDERCOVER stores and online starting on April 29.

In other fashion news, get ready for spring with Thom Browne’s latest sunflower backpack.

What to Read Next

Disney To Slow Down Marvel Releases as It Eyes Return of 'Star Wars' Franchise

Putting its efforts in ‘Star Wars’ returning to the big screens.

The new series starring Rosario Dawson follows the former Jedi Knight as she investigates an emerging threat to a vulnerable galaxy.

'Star Wars' Spinoff Series 'The Acolyte' To Hit Disney+ in 2024

With Lee Jung-jae, Amandla Stenberg, Carrie-Ann Moss and more set to star.

Netflix To Enforce Password Sharing Fees in the US in the Coming Weeks

After imposing the fees in four other countries in Q1 2023.

Available for one year only.

Set to appear on the BIG BANG member’s upcoming ‘Down to Earth’ EP.

First Look at the Nike Zoom Freak 5 "Gym Red/Metallic Gold"

As his PSG contract expires this summer.

Prada Is the World's Hottest Brand Again, Balenciaga Falls Dramatically, and Versace Rises

The Lyst Index Q1 2023 report is here, and the revelations are big: Gucci drops seven places, JW Anderson enters the top 20, and Miu Miu is hotter than ever.

A-COLD-WALL* Treats Its Converse AEON ACTIVE CX Collab to the "Dyed Programme"

Arriving in “Solarised,” “Carbon,” “Marine” and “Redox” shades — and no two are alike.

More ▾

Hypebeast® is a registered trademark of Hypebeast Hong Kong Ltd.