Sometimes a beer will call to me because it’s a tried and true standard, something I’ve been wanting to see or had been enjoying and I’m able to find it.

Sometimes a beer calls to me because it is so wildly out in left field and I’ve never seen anything like it before, doubtful I will see anything like it ever again.

Clearly, this beer is the latter. Because I don’t think anybody, least of all 26 Degree Brewing in Pompano  Beach, has ever made anything like Leche de Tigre (Gose, 6.1% ABV).

Made with Bonito flakes, cilantro, lime, and a touch of ghost pepper. Basically, this is a massive Thai-flavored Noodle Bowl in a beer. It actually reminds me of Tom Yum Thai Gose, a beer made a long time ago by the now defunct Tomoka Brewing.

As a gose, it has a really interesting flavor profile. The one thing I will accentuate is the ghost pepper is what both drew me in and gave me pause. Clearly it’s a hot ingredient and has a tendency to go overboard in overpowering beers.

That did not happen here, which makes me very happy to see. There’s a little bit of heat, a little bit of kick, but it’s not overpowering and it’s not excessively brutal. Just enough to give the flavor an added dimension.

The lime really stands out here, but that’s to be expected given the natural citrus zing tartness of a traditional gose. This light and somewhat fruity beer, with a crisp and clean base malt and very little hopping to be noticed, plays very well with citrus flavors, and the tart sweetness of the lime really gets accentuated.

As for the bonito and the cilantro? They’re there, just a little bit in the back, muted as those flavors tend to be naturally. They’re given a very soft and statesman-like role in the back.

There is definitely a lot going on, and this could have easily gotten away from the brewers. But it didn’t, they kept it in check, and did a very good job with it.

While I do not expect this to be on anyone’s year-round list, it’s still a fun experiment to try and ended up working in a lot of really good ways. Mostly now I need noodles.

Florida Beer Blog is a part of Florida Beer Media. Find us at FloridaBeerMedia.com.

Listen to the Florida Beer Podcast – Powered by Florida Beer Blog on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts, Spotify, Stitcher, and more!

Get 10% off a new Stone Brewing mini fridge from NewAir with code FLORIDABEER10!

If you’re looking for awesome beer glass or cigar gifts, make sure to head to GroovyGuyGifts.com!