The Haxtun FBLA Chapter had a very successful State Leadership Conference. State was held on April 5-7 at the Gaylord Rockies Resort & Convention Center. Forty-five members competed at the conference.

Haxtun club members were given the opportunities to enjoy their time at the pool, exploring the hotel, attending workshops and most importantly competing in various competitive events. Some of the favorite workshops included a presentation by the FBLA National President and a presentation by Tanley Anderson, a Haxtun alum and past Colorado FBLA State Officer. The presentation by the National President was called "Oh, Look What You Made Me Do!" He numbered students off into groups. From there each group had to come up with a celebrity and establish if they would be a "Certified FBLA Member" based on their hard work and accomplishments. Andersen and her fellow past state officer's presentation was called "Soft Skills in Business." The two girls had members do several interactive activities to build teamwork and communication skills. Both workshops were very interactive and enjoyable for our chapter's members.

When members were not participating in other activities or workshops, they were competing in their events. On the final day of the conference, students were finally able to see if all of their work had paid off. Twenty Haxtun FBLA members (nine teams) placed top-10 in the state in their events, including: Jayleigh Bullard and Hadley Feik, Intro to Social Media Strategies, ninth; Kanin Koberstein, Spreadsheet Applications, sixth; Aly Lock, Future Business Leader, sixth; Carter Lock, Seth Seger and Zach Statz, Digital Animation, fifth; Alyssa Molde and Megan Walker, Local Chapter Annual Business Report, fifth; Kinsley Koberstein, Chase Goddard and Coleman Firme, Intro to Business Presentations, third; Emily Anderson and Kelsie Hadeen, E-Business, first; Kyle Fryrear, Michael Gerk and Maclin Tempel, Partnership with Business, first; and Grace Gibson, Cassidy Goddard and Kaiden Schelling, American Enterprise Project, first. In addition, Kash Workman was recognized for his success completing the Business Achievement Awards and Brayden Clark will attend the National Conference to compete with his BAA Capstone Project. Overall the Haxtun FBLA Chapter had a lot of success.

Those who placed top four in their competitive event will receive the opportunity to attend the National Leadership Conference in Atlanta, Ga.