Best electric vans in the UK revealed – from Citroen to Renault | The Sun

Watch furious ‘Karen’ block in our family car at local supermarket, but we had the last laugh with our devious revenge | The Sun

I got back from holiday to find my car covered in cigarette burns, stinking of smoke with 100 extra miles on the clock | The Sun

The global elite is excited and terrified by AI

Today’s best interest rates for instant access and fixed term accounts

A Tech Industry Pioneer Sees a Way for the U. S. to Lead in Advanced Chips

AMAZON has introduced a long-awaited feature to Prime Video that puts Netflix to shame.

It puts a stop to the painful 'doom-loop' of turning up the volume to hear a muffled conversation, just to have the background noise continue to overpower the voices.

This usually happens with films because they have been mixed for cinemas and are often not adjusted to suit home viewing.

But Amazon has rolled out a brand new audio menu just for moments like this, which includes Low to High boosts.

The tech giant has deployed artificial intelligence (AI) to isolate audio and ramp up speech volume.

It means that only the audio will get louder without the background music joining in too.

Amazon Prime’s best kept secret – 79 games and bundles you can play for FREE

"This is actually a great feature, half the time I can't hear the dialogue and turn up the volume only to get my eardrums blasted by music in the next scene," one Prime Video user wrote on Twitter.

Another customer tweeted: "So I can boost the dialogue, turn down the overall sound–and watch a movie *without* having to turn it down every time it starts in with far-too-loud scoring, then turn it back to normal again for ensuing dialogue? AWESOME."

It's great news for those who don't like subtitles, which is a necessary feature when background noises and music overpower conversations in TV shows and films.

In response to the feature, horror movie buff Josh Wade wrote on Twitter: "Good. I’m tired of reading."

Netflix to charge users 'in weeks' for password sharing in crackdown

The 'creepy' website that can find EVERY photo of you online in seconds

Mysterious ‘portal-like’ blue swirl appears in sky over US

Amazon claims that Dialogue Boost should benefit anyone who is hard of haring.

But it also brings a big perk to Prime viewers without smart TVs, as this is often a feature on higher-tech televisions.

The feature is currently only available on a select number of titles, such as Amazon Originals The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel and Harlem or movies like Being The Ricardos and The Big Sick.

The details page for each programme or movie will let you know whether Dialogue Boost is available.

However, Amazon plans to integrate Dialogue Boost across more titles later this year.

Best Phone and Gadget tips and hacks

Looking for tips and hacks for your phone? Want to find those secret features within social media apps? We have you covered…

How to delete your Instagram account

What does pending mean on Snapchat?

How to check if you've been blocked on WhatsApp

How to drop a pin on Google Maps

How can I change my Facebook password?

How to go live on TikTok

How to clear the cache on an iPhone

What does Meta mean?

Get all the latest WhatsApp, Instagram, Facebook and other tech gadget stories here.

Oklahoma Gov. Kevin Stitt speaking to reporters in Tulsa in September 2020. Photo: Jabin Botsford/The Washington Post via Getty Images...

The global elite is excited and terrified by AI

A Tech Industry Pioneer Sees a Way for the U. S. to Lead in Advanced Chips

Today’s best interest rates for instant access and fixed term accounts

Experts at money.co.uk have today released a list of the top-paying savings accounts. The group has urged Britons to take...

Post Office can be used for savings as 400 bank branches to close

We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.