Perhaps you lost your radio transmission as you steered the car into the Callahan Tunnel late Saturday afternoon. Maybe the power went out in your house, or you dropped your iPhone at precisely the wrong time, or, heck, it’s possible you heard some discouraging words from Celtics coach Joe Mazzulla and simply didn’t want to hear anything more.

What take-it-to-the-bank fact is this: The Celtics opened their best-of-seven Eastern Conference quarterfinal playoff series with a 112-99 victory over the Atlanta Hawks at TD Garden.

This, too, is fact: The Celtics jumped out to a 30-point lead during a festive, rollicking first half, and then kinda-sorta let the Hawks back into the game in the second half.

And this: When Mazzulla was asked after the game if he was “concerned” about what happened in the second half, he said, “I’m very concerned.” That’s the before-losing-reception-in-the-Callahan Tunnel part of the answer, and we should pause here to point out that the coach spoke with a high level of seriousness, adding such a dramatic flourish to his words, that, geez, the American Repertory Theater over in Cambridge should be checking this guy out.

For it was all a rib. Mazzulla had sold his answer to a degree that the reporter who posed the question felt compelled to say, “Seriously . . .”

Mazzulla, perhaps feeling it might be best to put this horsey back in the barn lest all New England lose a night’s sleep, quickly responded with: “No, no, I’m not concerned at all. I mean, this team has played great for the entire season. That’s going to happen. It’s actually good that we went through it, we had to feel that, and it’s important that we learn from it. So for us to be able to get a win and at the same time know we can play better is good.”

Mazzulla is correct, of course. It’s all about 16 W’s if you want to win a championship in the NBA, and as of now, it’s one down, 15 to go.

Sure, the Celtics did see their share of second-half leads melt in the snow over the winter. And that means the second half of Game 1, with the Hawks closing to within 12 points in the fourth quarter, should be well, here we go again, concerning. Except it might be a good idea to side with the coach on this one. That’s partly because nobody not working for the Atlanta Hawks honestly believed Boston was going to blow this one, but also because it wouldn’t have made much sense for the Celtics to play four quarters with the same intensity they displayed in the first two.

If it’s a statement the Celtics wanted to make, they certainly succeeded. The second half didn’t change that. Heck, the game began with a statement, Jaylen Brown making a steal and then rolling in a lay-up.

“Setting the tempo on defense is going to be key, and I was just letting them know it was going to be a long night,” said Brown, who led the Celtics in scoring with 29 points.

“We were locked in from the beginning,” offered Jayson Tatum, even if, OK they weren’t all that locked in at the end.

But Tatum, who scored 25 points, made an excellent point: “We didn’t lose the lead,” he said, pointing out that the Celtics led by 30 points at halftime and then the Hawks cut into that lead in the fourth quarter. But the Celtics never lost the lead.

If that little lawyer’s dodge by Tatum isn’t enough to calm the nerves of those Celtics fans who wanted four-quarter domination, let’s maybe talk aesthetics. Let’s talk about the ballet of basketball. So perfect, so balletic, were the Celtics out of the gate in this, the first half of their first postseason game of the Joe Mazzulla Era, that the entire 24 minutes could have been posted as a singular highlight. OK, I’ll admit it’s way too soon to be going upper-case E with “era,’ but it’s not too soon to look at that first as a bellwether of what’s ahead, even if the second half was a sobering reminder, as if anyone needed one, that nothing’s going to be easy.

The most talked-about play by the Celtics in that crazy first half? Take your pick. For symbolism and the sheer take-that of it all, you could go with Brown’s post-national-anthem steal. There was Malcolm Brogdon delivering a bounce pass through some serious rush-hour traffic to Robert Willians III for an easy lay-up. There was Derrick White collecting the rebound of his own missed shot, losing it for a second, getting its back, and kicking it out to Marcus Smart, who threw in a 3-pointer.

As for Mr. Robert Williams III, he managed the mean feat of blocking a Jalen Johnson shot and collecting the ball in one fell swoop. The video of that block has already been sent to Pluto and back as you read this.

Mazzulla did observe that “we lost our offensive purpose,” but they didn’t lose a game. And to again borrow from Jayson Tatum, they didn’t lose the lead.

And, yes, that first half’s gonna leave a mark with the Hawks. The Celtics were that good.

If there’s a real scare, though, it’s Brown talking after the game about those five stitches in his right hand.

“It split open in the game, but it’s fine now,” he said. “I think it’s going to be all right. Let’s take a look at it tomorrow.”

Message to Celtics fans: Don’t worry about the second half. But keep an eye on the five stitches.