Capitulating as always: In response to calls from Tennessee’s very small and very minor Democratic Party — including its normal mobs of screaming protesters, some of which routinely threaten violence — the Republican governor of Tennessee, Bill Lee, is now demanding new gun laws aimed at making it easier to take guns away from Tennessee citizens.

Tennessee Gov. Bill Lee called Tuesday for state lawmakers to pass a law aimed at preventing guns from getting in the hands of people who are a danger to themselves or others.

The Republican governor also said he will sign a new executive order later Tuesday aimed at strengthening background checks on firearm purchases. “I’m asking the General Assembly to bring forward an order of protection law,” Lee said in a news conference at a Nashville police station. “A new, strong order of protection law will provide the broader population cover, safety, from those who are a danger to themselves or the population. “This is our moment to lead and to give the people of Tennessee what they deserve.” [emphasis mine]

Yeah, he wants to give it to them, good and hard. And apparently he has support from the Republican House Speaker Cameron Sexton, and Republican Lt. Gov. Randy McNally, who is the Senate speaker.

The voters of this state gave the Republicans a 27 to 6 majority in the state’s Senate. That’s an 82% majority. The voters also gave the Republicans a 75 to 24 majority in the state’s House. That’s a 76% majority. The voters also voted Republicans into all statewide elected positions.. That’s a 100% majority. Note too that the voters have given the Republicans this total control now for more than a dozen years.

I guarantee those voters did not vote for more gun regulation or control. If anything, those voters wanted less regulation and more freedom. They certainly did not vote for the Republicans to give them Democratic Party policy. Considering the large majorities the voters gave to these Republicans, you would think this Democratic Party policy would be that last thing they would get.

But that is what they are getting, fueled by cowardice, weakness, and a desire to kow-tow to Democrats. In order to force the legislature to pass more gun control in Tennessee, the Democrats first incited a mob to threaten a take-over of the statehouse, including having three elected Democrats in the House violate the House’s rules by leading that protest and illegally shutting down the legislature. Next, the Democrats rallied behind the two Democrats expelled for that illegal action, holding more demonstrations while rallying the press to call the Republicans “white supremacists” and “dictators” and “fascists” for simply upholding the rules of the legislature.

Faced with this outside pressure, the Republicans who control by vast majorities every part of Tennessee’s state government have apparently now decided to act as representatives of the left, not the voters who put them in office, and propose new gun control laws. My contempt for these queslings knows no bounds.

All of this controversy was sparked by the mass murder of six people, including three 9-year-old children, by Audrey Hale, a woman who wanted to make believe she was a man and didn’t like the fact that most normal people thought this was perverse and unhealthy.

I can also guarantee that the law Governor Lee is proposing and the executive order he has imposed will do nothing to prevent any future so-called “trans” person from getting a gun. Under our new leftist overlords, such behavior cannot be considered unhealthy or a symptom of any mental health disorder. Thus, these new regulations will do nothing to prevent the mentally unstable in the queer community from obtaining guns and then using them — as did the queer mass murderer Audrey Hale — while working to rob ordinary and likely very normal people of their second amendment right to defend themselves.

This therefore isn’t an example of Republican failure theater, where these idiots make believe they are giving the voters what they voted for. This is utter failure period. The Republicans are giving the Democrats what they want, and telling their voters to go to hell.

With friends like this, who needs enemies? More to the point, who needs the Republican Party at all, since it won’t do what it was elected to do?

In Tennessee the citizens now face a situation where they no longer have anyone willing to truly represent them, and are saddled with a government that is no longer by, for, and of the people. It is instead a many-armed octopus of power, with both parties teaming up to rob the citizens of their freedom.

The only answer to such an evil power grab has always been violence, rebellion, and revolution. Such things should not be wished for, especially when the U. S. and every single one of its states have a legal system and a constitutional government that should make such rebellion and revolution unnecessary.

But violence, rebellion, and revolution is what is coming, very soon, if the Republicans don’t quickly rethink their behavior.