'Sell Before May and Go Away': Wells Fargo expects S&P 500 to drop to 3700

Wall St ends mixed as inflation data comes into focus

This Week's CPI Report Could Seal the Deal on Next Big Rate Hike

Why This Lipper Award Winning Mutual Fund Keeps Delivering Even As Markets Falter

'Sell Before May and Go Away': Wells Fargo expects S&P 500 to drop to 3700

Wall St ends mixed as inflation data comes into focus

This Week's CPI Report Could Seal the Deal on Next Big Rate Hike

Why This Lipper Award Winning Mutual Fund Keeps Delivering Even As Markets Falter

Investing.com - European stock markets edged higher Wednesday in tight trading ranges with the focus firmly on the monthly U. S. inflation report, which could guide future Federal Reserve monetary policy.

At 03:45 ET (07:45 GMT), the  in Germany traded 0.3% higher, the  in France climbed 0.4%, and the  in the U. K. rose 0.4%.

Sentiment is guarded Wednesday as investors await the release of the  for March to gauge just how sticky prices are likely to be and thus the likely monetary response from the Federal Reserve.

The general perception is that the  is near the end of its aggressive rate-hiking cycle, but there may still be room for another increase in May, when the policymakers next get together.

Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank President  made this point on Tuesday, saying that he feels the Fed may soon be done raising interest rates while reiterating that the central bank is committed to bringing inflation down from its elevated levels.

There’s little in the way of major economic data due in Europe Wednesday, and thus stock markets are likely to trade in something of a holding pattern ahead of the U. S. inflation report.

This is expected to show the all-important , which excludes volatile food and energy prices, rose 0.4% on a monthly basis and 5.6%  in March.

In corporate news, Volvo (ST:) stock soared 8% after the Swedish truck maker reported a record first-quarter profit despite supply bottlenecks and cost inflation.

Mercedes Benz (ETR:) stock rose 0.4% after the German car manufacturer said its sales rose moderately in the first quarter of this year, boosted by electric vehicles and premium cars.

Oil prices edged higher Wednesday ahead of the release of the all-important U. S. inflation data as well as the U.S. government crude inventories.

Dollar weakness helped the crude benchmarks post gains of around 2% on Tuesday, even after the , an industry body, reported crude stockpiles rose by about 380,000 barrels last week, against expectations for a small decline.

The U. S. government will release its  later this session.

By 03:45 ET,  futures traded marginally higher at $81.66 a barrel, while the  contract climbed 0.1% to $85.78.

Additionally,  rose 0.5% to $2028.30/oz, while  traded 0.2% higher at 1.0927.