In The Path Of Devotional Love we have helped couples on the brink of divorce turn their relationships around and go on to experience a new depth of love, connection and sexual intimacy that they were deeply yearning for.

We have created a practical process involving specific exercises and tools to help couples increase their capacity to love and learn the skills to create a deeply fulfilling relationship, spiritually, mentally, emotionally and sexually.

We truly believe in our hearts that if BOTH people are willing AND COMMITTED, there is nothing that can’t be overcome.

The problem is, most times, only ONE person is committed, and that person is desperately trying to get their partner on board to “DO THE WORK”.

In some cases both people are committed, however they don’t have the right kind of support, tools and facilitators to really make the change that is necessary, so they fail because of the wrong support, not the commitment.

Let’s explore what is needed in order to turn around a relationship that is teetering on the edge.

There are 3 key elements needed to save a relationship on the brink of collapse.

1.) COMMITMENT- As I mentioned earlier, BOTH people need to be 100% committed to doing their own work.

You can’t fix your partner, you can only fix yourself.

Once you do your healing, integrate your inner child and re-pattern your relationship blueprint (childhood conditioning), you will be able to interact and relate in new ways, which will create a new, healthy dynamic with your partner.

If both people individually take responsibility FOR THEIR OWN CONTRIBUTION to the problem, and they approach the “PROBLEM” TOGETHER, then there is nothing that two committed people can’t overcome.

2.) THE RIGHT CONTAINER- When most people hire a coach, mentor, or therapist to help them overcome the issues in their relationships, they hire someone that doesn’t fully embody what they are wanting to create.

ex.) There are relationship coaches who are single, but help couples…?

There are relationship mentors who don’t have kids who work with parents that have kids.

Although it MAY BE POSSIBLE to get results like this, it’s FAR LESS LIKELY if you’re not working with someone who embodies the outcome you want to create.

In Devotional Love, we work with couples, AS A COUPLE.

We have 3 boys, we have a mixed family, Gabriella is from Italy and I am from Canada (we are inter-cultural), we have a 9-year age gap, we run our own business together, we have created a conscious lifestyle for ourselves and our kids in Bali and recently we did a 6-month world tour with our 3 boys to 7 countries.

We know FIRST HAND the difficulties of managing a relationship, being conscious parents, and creating a lifestyle of freedom, fulfilment and purpose for ourselves and our family.

We are not oblivious to the day to day responsibilities couples with kids face.

We deeply understand AND GET our clients in a practical and grounded way.

We have also gone through our own relationship challenges throughout our lives.

We both have had divorces prior to finding each other, and we know what it takes to go through heart break, heal, and create an extraordinary relationship.

We have also had our challenges inside of our relationship, AND we have found ways to overcome them.

We share from our experience what works, and what doesn’t work.

When we work with a couple, we work COUPLE TO COUPLE.

This dynamic of 2:2 creates a stable, non-biased space, where BOTH people feel EQUALLY heard, seen, felt, and understood.

This allows for each person to express freely without the fear of the facilitation being biased.

In other containers, where ONE male, or ONE female coach works with a couple, the couple can feel like the facilitator may side with one or the other, and not feel fully safe to express what’s really going on for them.

This can unintentionally create triangulation, where one partner’s experience is valued and the other is invalidated, leading to a lack of intimacy between the client and facilitator and preventing them from fully opening up to get to the core of the problem.

It can also be uncomfortable to share certain intimate details with someone of the opposite sex, so having BOTH a masculine and feminine facilitator creates the full depth of safety and intimacy.

In order to provide the most complete container in Devotional Love we work man to man, woman to woman, and man to woman.

In order to provide the most complete container in Devotional Love we work couple to couple, and Kai will work with the man and do mens work. Gabriella will work with the woman and do womans work. Kai will work with the woman and do man to woman work. Gabriella will work with the man and do woman to man work.

This complete archetypal dynamic allows ALL the possible relationship patterns to be explored, expressed, uncovered, healed and re-patterned.

Because of this we are able to RE-CREATE THE RELATIONAL DYNAMICS that mirror the ones our clients grew up with and re-pattern them.

By holding different masculine and feminine archetypes, we are able to address all of the patterns that were conditioned during childhood.

As almost 100% of trauma is created in relationship to another person, the healing of that trauma also needs to be done in relationship.

We use these various dynamics to re-pattern each of our clients nervous system so they can begin relating to their partner in a different way.

This deep embodied shift in their nervous system is what’s needed to create a new healthy dynamic in the couple.

Often times, understanding the pattern, and being aware of a new pattern isn’t enough.

It needs an EMBODIED shift.

Our methodology uses a combination of embodiment practices, trauma release/healing processes, spiritual and sexual practices, transmissions, and we use coaching, mentoring and healing modalities in our sessions to provide a complete, holistic approach.

We have found this holistic methodology to be very effective and our 4-month 1–1 private mentoring program often creates better results than other 1–2 year programs (according to our clients).

3.) INCREASING YOUR CAPACITY TO LOVE & LEARNING TO RELATE SKILLFULLY-

LOVE IS A CAPACITY which everyone can expand.

RELATIONSHIP IS A SKILL, which everyone can learn.

In The Path Of Devotional Love the first thing we do with every couple is work with the individuals to increase their capacity to love.

If an individual has what we refer to as an INTIMACY BLOCK, their nervous system will unconsciously shut down to their partner when the levels of connection and intimacy get too intense.

If this unconscious block is resolved, there can be an immediate increase in the feelings of closeness and love, even if there has been disconnection and distance for years.

We also educate our clients on various skills that are needed in order to relate successfully.

They can essentially fit into 2 main categories:

1.) SELF-SOURCING- Learning The Skills To Have Your Deepest Needs & Desires Fulfilled

2.) BEING IN SERVICE- Learning The Skills To Fulfill Your Partner’s Deepest Needs & Desires

If people learn how to self-source, the majority of what they are seeking in another person can be done by themselves, thus limiting, or eliminating co-dependancy.

Ex.) Learning how to Self Acknowledge, Self Regulate, Self Heal, Self Nurture, Self Care, Self Love, Be Self Compassionate etc…

Learning how to FILL UP YOUR OWN CUP, or “PUT YOUR SEATBELT ON FIRST” is one of the most important skills you can learn if you want to be in a long term relationship.

Once you learn how to GIVE TO YOURSELF, you naturally become more capable of GIVING TO YOUR PARTNER.

And when your own cup is full, you’re able to give away the excess, instead of trying to give away the fumes in an empty tank of gas.

This internal dynamic is what leads to co-dependancy and burnout, and if it’s corrected, you and your partner can create a sustainable and fulfilling dynamic together.

When you shift from the co-dependant phase, you will move into independent phase, and ultimately into the INTER-DEPENDANT phase.

The INTER-DEPENDANT phase is a dynamic of SERVICE & DEVOTION, and is the highest expression of love and relating.

This is THE PATH OF DEVOTIONAL LOVE.

It is a path to deepen the depths of love and intimacy and it opens both people up to BEING IN A STATE OF DEVOTIONAL LOVE with one another.

When two people are in Devotional Love, miracles happen daily.

The Path Of Devotional Love works because it’s practical, holistic and simple to understand.

If you are struggling to break through the challenges in your relationship and you’re wanting to experience a deeper intimacy, love and connection with your partner, book a free discovery call with us here:

We are happy to sit down and get to know you both as a couple, and as individuals, and see how we can support you best.