Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC) fighter Nate Diaz's girlfriend, who might also be his wife, Misty Brown, prefers to keep out of the spotlight.

Nate and Brown have been together since 2007 and had known each other long before they began dating. They share two children, one born in 2018 and the other in 2022.

However, with the history of children and the long-term relationship, it has yet to be confirmed whether they are still just girlfriend and boyfriend or something more. Although the couple has never discussed marriage publicly, Nate's trainer mentioned that Brown was Nate's wife during an interview.

Misty Brown is originally from Lodi, California, and her Facebook says she still resides there. She attended the local Tokay High School, graduating in 2003 before finishing her studies in liberal arts at SJDC the following year. In 2006, she concluded her studies in liberal arts again, this time at California State University, Stanislaus.

Before Nate and Brown began dating, they had long met during practice for their respective sporting activities at Salas Park. Nate was on the football team, while Brown was a cheerleader. When she first noticed him, she recalled, "He was always running laps. Even then, he was getting in trouble."

Brown had a brother named Steven Brown, who married in September 2015. According to his LinkedIn profile, he is experienced in IT, having started working in the industry almost a decade ago. He works at the Meyer Corporation in Fairfield, California, as a WMi Analyst.

Brown is a very private person. Although on various social media platforms, she keeps her Instagram private and hasn't shared anything on Facebook in a long time. Her last post was a selfie of her and Nate at what looked like a concert in March 2018.

Although they had met long before after first seeing each other at practice, Brown and Nate only began dating in 2007. The exact timeline from their meeting to how their relationship developed is off the public record.

In June 2018, the long-term couple reportedly welcomed their first child together. The healthy baby girl was born on June 6 at a hospital in California. The family was said to be extremely happy about their newest addition. A year later, the couple lived with their daughter, Nikayla, in a sprawling, clustered stucco house near Highway 99.

Fast forward to 2022, and Nate and Brown reportedly welcomed their second child. His coach, Cesar Gracie, revealed the news during an interview on Submission Radio. Interestingly, the coach called Brown Nate's wife during that same segment, but the couple has never officially confirmed that.

Misty doesn't share much of her alleged husband's spotlight but defends his perceived bad boy public image. She says he is different in real life from what fans see in the media. His default emotion is relaxed among his family and friends, laughing and smiling. Brown said:

"It's wrong that he comes off as the middle finger mean guy that you can't have a conversation with when deep down inside, he's one of the most passionate people I've met. There's a portrayal of him on TV, and when people meet him, they say, oh, he's not mean at all."

The Diaz boys are pretty talented in mixed martial arts. Before Nate came to the fore, his older brother Nick was a feature on UFC, the organization led by Dana White, for a decade and a half.

While speaking to MMAFighting.com after being handed a five-year suspension by the Nevada Athletic Commission in 2015, Nick opened up about another tragic moment in his life.

He told a story about how he lost the girl he loved more than anything, Stephanie, who committed suicide on Highway 99 near his Grandmother's house. This was the third time she had attempted to do so.

On that fateful night, Nick's friend had a party, and after the party, he was supposed to go to Stephanie's house with her brother but ended up going to his house with his friends. An hour after they arrived at the house, Stephanie's mom called him to find out where she was, and their search for her ended on the freeway.

The National Suicide Prevention Lifeline is 1-800-273-8255. Other international suicide helplines can be found at befrienders.org