Maple Leaf Sports & Entertainment won’t be on the hook for any costs associated with helping Toronto host the World Cup, as part of a “sweetheart deal” under which the company will be entitled to millions of dollars in revenue generated by the soccer tournament.

A Feb. 10 letter of intent outlining the city and MLSE’s hosting partnership for the FIFA Men’s World Cup 2026 stipulates the company will be kept financially “whole” for its role in staging the competition, which will include overseeing upgrades to municipally owned BMO Field, licensing the tournament’s commercial rights, and marketing.

According to the document, taxpayers will pay for improvements to the stadium and other hosting costs, while reimbursing MLSE for any lost revenue or expenditures the company incurs, including temporarily relocating its Canadian Football League and Major League Soccer franchises from BMO Field.

The city says the deal protects the public interest and is justified because MLSE, which in addition to the Argonauts and Toronto FC also owns the Maple Leafs and  Raptors, has the “unique mix of roles and expertise” required to make the tournament a success. Toronto has estimated the World Cup will generate thousands of jobs and $307 million in gross domestic product.

But critics caution that the letter, which the city shared with the Star at the newspaper’s request, indicates Toronto may not be getting a fair deal.

“I see it as a private enterprise very typically asking government to take all the risk, and at the same time asking for a share of the profits, and that worries me,” said Coun. Gord Perks (Ward 4, Parkdale—High Park).

He said the city shouldn’t be spending public dollars on a sporting event when it’s facing a budget crisis and an affordability crunch.

In a statement, MLSE, which is majority-owned by Rogers and Bell, said it has a “strong history” of working with Toronto to produce world-class events like the Pan Am Games, and has successfully managed BMO Field for many years, including by investing in a $100-million renovation that delivered improvements required for the World Cup.

The corporation said under the hosting agreement, it is “only recouping operational costs incurred on behalf of the city to ensure the (stadium) is ready,” and it “looks forward to continuing its work with the city to welcome the world to Toronto in 2026 and produce what promises to be one of the most defining events in Toronto’s history.”

The city didn’t provide an estimate for how much it expects to pay MLSE under the agreement.

Toronto was named last June as one of the host cities for the next edition of the World Cup, which will be held jointly by Canada, the United States and Mexico. Weeks later, council authorized city officials to negotiate a deal with MLSE to deliver the event.

The letter of intent isn’t a final contract, but sets the parameters for future hosting agreements between the two sides.

It says the city and MLSE will each be entitled to half the net revenue generated by the licensing and sale of the World Cup’s commercial rights, including sponsorships, advertising, special events and VIP access, up to $10 million. Any revenue in excess of that will be split 60/40 in the city’s favour.

MLSE will serve as project manager for improvements to BMO Field, where at least five World Cup matches are expected to be played. But the city will pay for the estimated $25-million upgrades, and short of negligence or breach of contract, the company won’t be responsible for any problems with the upgrades, including missed deadlines or cost overruns.

The city will also pay MLSE for any revenue losses to the company or the Argos and Toronto FC, including the cost of temporarily moving the franchises, which are expected to be displaced for at least six weeks.

Toronto will also be responsible for covering any penalties imposed on MLSE by its suppliers or sponsors if FIFA, soccer’s international governing body, directs the company not to use them for the event.

MLSE won’t be allowed to include a profit margin in the amounts it bills the city for project management or commercial licensing costs. But the company will charge the city for promotional, marketing and branding services at a rate of $150 an hour, plus expenses.

Michael Naraine, an associate professor of sport management at Brock University, said it’s fair to describe the letter of intent as a “sweetheart deal” for MLSE.

But the company’s experience in staging and marketing sporting events in Toronto is unparalleled, he said, and because cities lack in-house expertise to deliver major tournaments like the World Cup, it’s not usual for municipalities to partner with private companies.

“It does require both commercial and government to make something like this come to fruition,” Naraine said.

“This is something that we can’t run ourselves.”

Last June staff projected that hosting five World Cup matches would cost $300 million, but FIFA has since expanded the tournament from an 80- to a 104-game format. A city spokesperson said the organization has not yet provided details of how the change could affect Toronto’s hosting duties.

Toronto is expecting the federal and provincial governments to contribute, but so far neither Ottawa nor Queen’s Park has made a commitment.