Here’s how we break down the shoe in every review.

We use cookies to provide the best experience on our website. Read our Cookie Policy.

Coros is Giving Away The Last Eliud Kipchoge Pace 2 GPS Watch

In just a few days, Eliud Kipchoge will look to secure his fifth Abbott World Marathon Majors win at the 2023 Boston Marathon, and further cement his status as the greatest marathoner of all-time. In the lead-up to this attempt, Coros is offering a giveaway that’s hard to beat– the last remaining Coros Pace 2 Eliud Kipchoge GPS watch, as well as a signed NN running singlet, signed water bottle, and signed World Record book.

The Coros Pace 2 EK edition has been on Kipchoge’s wrist through hundreds of training hours, as well as during his wins at Berlin and the Tokyo Games. I mean, if it’s good enough for the GOAT, and it’s good enough for our 4-hour marathons, then it’s definitely good enough for you.

We reviewed the watch when it first came out and were lucky enough to get one sample into the office. It’s a phenomenal watch, small in stature but formidable in performance. With excellent battery life, Coros training capabilities, and pinpoint accuracy, it’s hard to find a better value. Of course, it’s always better to have a better version, and that’s why you should probably try and get yourself the last Eliud Kipchoge version of the watch.

How can you enter the giveaway? Head to the link below by April 30 and fork over your email and location (we’ve seen far worse requirements for a giveaway), and you’re all set! The grand prize winner will be announced by email in early May.

One more thing – Coros is also giving away a copy of Des Linden’s new memoir Choosing to Run with any Coros watch purchase. Simply claim your free book when adding your watch to your cart and you’re good to go!

Robbe is the senior editor of Believe in the Run. He loves going on weird routes through Baltimore, finding trash on the ground, and running with the Faster Bastards. At home in the city, but country at heart. Loves his two boys more than anything. Has the weakest ankles in the game.

More from Robbe