FARGO — A             ringleader

of an international drug operation that killed four people, including one in Grand Forks, testified against             his girlfriend, a Canadian woman who, according to prosecutors, was his “outside help” while he was in prison.

In the second week of 42-year-old Marie Um’s trial, Colombia national             Daniel Vivas Ceron

, 43, took the stand in North Dakota’s U. S. District Court. Over the course of three hours, Vivas described how he helped expand the small fentanyl pill-making business into an international enterprise, and how he drew in the Quebec woman.

“This is the woman that I fell in love with,” Vivas said, noting that he did not feel good about testifying against her.

Um faces             drug trafficking conspiracy charges

that allege she conspired to import and distribute fentanyl into the U. S. This resulted in 15 overdoses in New Jersey, North Carolina, Rhode Island, Oregon and North Dakota, according to federal prosecutors. Um has pleaded not guilty to the charges.

Of those overdoses, four were fatal. That included the early 2015 death of 18-year-old Bailey Henke at his Grand Forks apartment.

His death led to an investigation dubbed "Operation Denial." It resulted in more than two dozen indictments, including Vivas’ and his co-ringleader,            Jason Joey Berry

of Montreal. Both men have pleaded guilty to charges for their part in managing the operation from 2013 into 2014 while incarcerated at Drummond Institution, a medium security prison in Quebec.

Prosecutors are trying to convince a jury that Um knew she was trafficking fentanyl and her actions led to those overdoses. Vivas, who had been in Drummond since 2002 for a drive-by shooting conviction, said he was introduced to Um in 2012 through a friend.

The friendship between Um and Vivas evolved into a romantic relationship, he said as he smiled at her in court. She would come to visit him in the prison.

When Berry was sent to the prison in 2013, Vivas said he received a note from another friend to look after Berry. Vivas said he didn’t know why Berry was imprisoned before they met.

That seemed to contradict Berry’s testimony, who said last week in court that Vivas learned about Berry on the news. Berry also said Vivas told him that he had a cellphone, but Vivas told jurors that it was Berry who acquired the phone for Vivas.

Vivas noted he had to learn about Google and smartphones from Berry, since he had been in prison before those things were invented. Vivas said having a cellphone in his hand gave him a lot of power.

“It was a toy, a grown-up toy,” Vivas said. “It was fun.”

Berry, who started making fentanyl pills before he was sent to prison, asked Vivas for help running the operation, Vivas testified. Berry said he didn’t intend to teach Vivas about the business, but Vivas learned by asking questions and eventually got involved.

With the cellphone, Vivas could do research on the internet and speak to people, albeit through email, without guards monitoring him, he said. He noted he never saw the end result for his customers who purchased fentanyl pills.

"To me, it was like an office job," he said of his involvement in the drug ring.

Berry said he passed notes to Vivas with instructions to contact people on the outside who could help continue the operation. In late 2013, Barry said he needed help with sending packaged samples of the product, which was being made on the outside, Vivas said.

Vivas said he asked Um, but he “sugarcoated” his description of the product to her. He said they were shipping pharmaceuticals, and he gave the fentanyl pills nicknames.

“I didn’t tell her exactly what it was,” he said, adding that he didn’t want her to research the product and find out it was fentanyl.

Prosecutors showed jurors emails sent back and forth between Um and Vivas while he was in prison. They included inventory of the pills, as well as receipts for expenses.

“She was very efficient,” Vivas said of Um allegedly keeping track of finances and inventory.

Berry said he was segregated from the general prison population in early 2014 after being accused of using a cellphone to operate his fentanyl business, but Vivas said Berry was put into solitary confinement after bringing in drugs that resulted in an inmate’s overdose. Berry eventually was sent to another prison.

Vivas said he started to expand the operation soon after Berry was separated from him. He set minimum amounts that customers would have to buy, researched more powerful ingredients for pills and eventually helped a man in Rhode Island set up a pill press to start making the pills there, Vivas said.

Um handled small amounts of product, Vivas said. He also said he asked Um to recruit others to help move packages. She ultimately pulled in her brother and sister-in-law, Vivas said.

Vivas said he didn’t tell Um the chemical makeup of the pills, but he did give her instructions on how to handle fentanyl safely, including wearing gloves and a mask. He also told her how to safely package the pills, he said.

“I didn’t want her to get hurt,” he said.

In trying to convince jurors that Um knew the pills were dangerous, prosecutors asked Vivas about a time when Um became ill while handling the product.

In 2015, Vivas was extradited to the U. S. to face charges. Um was arrested in April 2021.

Both are being held at the Cass County Jail.

Vivas hadn't finished his testimony by publishing time. The trial could last into next week.