The latest installment of El Trafico shows the growing gap between LA Galaxy and upstarts LAFC. Founded eight years ago based on the remains of former Major League Soccer franchise Chivas USA, the Los Angeles Football Club has finally won their first game at their local rivals Galaxy 3-2 thanks to goals by Carlos Vela (22’ and 68’) and Ryan Hollingshead (70’). Tyler Boyd (41’) and Mark Delgado (84’) scored the Galaxy goals.

“It feels great,” LAFC star striker Carlos Vela said when asked about finally winning a game at the Galaxy’s home ground. “I feel like we have shown many times that we are better than them, but for some odd reason, every time we went here, something crazy happened.”

Looking at the development of both clubs in recent years, it was surprising that it took LAFC this long to finally win a game at Dignity Health Sports Park. After all, LAFC is the current MLS Cup winner; the club has also dominated international headlines by securing a significant partnership with Bundesliga record champions Bayern Munich.

The two clubs announced the creation of a global soccer development cooperation named Red & Gold Football in March. "A partnership of this magnitude is the next step in our evolution as a Club," LAFC president and general manager John Thorrington said in a club statement. "We are extremely excited to work together with FC Bayern to identify and develop young talent in Southern California and beyond and believe this relationship will provide players throughout our systems the ability to maximize their potential and see a clear pathway to first-team football."

Then on Friday, LAFC announced that the club would invest in the Austrian club Wacker Innsbruck. "We are incredibly honored and excited to work with FC Wacker Innsbruck for the opportunity to pursue an investment in this Club," LAFC EVP of Corporate Strategy and Development Benny Tran said in a club statement.

And LA Galaxy? For years the Galaxy was considered the trendsetter in MLS. In fact, signing David Beckham in 2007 likely saved MLS. The club would go on and win MLS Cups in 2011, 2012, and 2014 (without Beckham). An argument could be made that the Galaxy not only formed a dynasty but also made modern MLS possible.

Since winning the title in 2014, the same year LAFC was formed out of the ashes of Chivas, however, it also marked a point in which the Galaxy would fall behind other clubs. Sure, the Zlatan Ibrahimovic years provided excitement, and in Chicharito, the club still has one of the biggest stars in the league.

The truth, however, is that LAFC, who, unlike their rivals located within the Los Angeles city limits, slowly seem to pass their local rivals in terms of being the trendsetter in MLS. A point further underlined by LAFC winning the latest El Trafico but also by the Galaxy’s off-field issues.

One glance around Dignity Health Sports Park on Sunday, for example, revealed that LAFC fans are now the more dominant force. Especially as Galaxy fans are currently protesting the leadership of President Chris Klein and technical director Jovan Kirovski.

The two are the scapegoats for fans, who feel that their local rivals are passing them. The two are also responsible for the club being hit with sanctions by MLS for salary cap violations—the club will not be allowed to make signings from outside MLS in the upcoming summer transfer window. As a result, Galaxy’s hardcore support is currently boycotting home games until Klein and Kirovski resign from their positions.

Klein has since stated that he would resign from his position if the Galaxy fail to make the playoffs this season. A likely prospect going by recent results as the Galaxy still waits for their first win this season. In fact, the Galaxy is now 14 points behind their local rivals LAFC, who sit in second place in the Western Conference with one game in hand.

“We've had the same narrative in my last two years, and then we qualified for the playoffs, we were the fourth seed, and they were even more scared that they were going to fight against us after we defeated Nashville,” Chicharito said when asked whether LAFC is now the best team in the league. “They are doing an excellent job, they are doing great things, but for us, it's a results-driven job over here, and we depend on that, and unfortunately, we haven't delivered, but the bright side is that this is just the beginning."

Chicharito, of course, has to remain optimistic. But the truth of El Trafico also is that LAFC has now finally won a game at their rival’s stadium. The upstarts from downtown LA are also the club that is concluding international partnerships and is the current MLS Cup champions. With all that in mind, LA Galaxy fans protesting might have a point, their club is being left behind, and only major change can close the gap to their city rivals.

Manuel Veth is the host of the Bundesliga Gegenpressing Podcast and the Area Manager USA at Transfermarkt. He has also been published in the Guardian, Newsweek, Howler, Pro Soccer USA, and several other outlets. Follow him on Twitter: @ManuelVeth