20 Must Read Books in Your 20sThe 20s is the most crucial time of our lives. So making the most of it can take you well ahead of others. Today I’ll share a list of 20 must read books you should read in your 20s.

Just completed your graduation and looking for your dream job? Then do read this book. It will clear all your confusions about life and help you make the best out of your 20s.

Spending money to show people how much money you have is the fastest way to have less money. — Morgan HouselIf you learn to master money in your 20s, it can benefit you for the rest of your life. This book helps you achieve that mastery. It offers valuable insights about money psychology, investment strategies and wealth management.

If you're planning to start a business at some point in life, then you can definitely pick up this book. It is a must-read for business leaders and entrepreneurs. It provides key insights on what it takes to make a company successful and how to sustain it.

The ability to make yourself do what you should do, when you should do it, whether you feel like it or not. — Brian TracyTime is money. Time is energy. We often hear these terms around ourselves. But how to actually manage your time? If you don't have an answer to this question. Then this book is for you. It shares 21 practical strategies to make the most of your time.

You are in danger of living a life so comfortable and soft, that you will die without ever realizing your true potential. — David GogginsOur 20s is the time when we've to make ourselves ready for upcoming challenges in life. This book prepares you for it. It makes you mentally tough and introduces the power of discipline in your life.

Many a serious thinker has been produced in prisons, where we have nothing to do but think. — Robert GreeneWhat are the traits of the most powerful people ever lived? This book teaches you exactly that. It shares 48 laws of power to help you rock in personal as well as your professional life.

Jordan Peterson is a clinical psychologist from Canada. He has multiple interviews on topics like psychology, politics and personal growth. So whatever you learn in this book is widely researched and from an expert's point of view.

Practice isn't the thing you do once you're good. It's the thing you do that makes you good. — Jim CollinsOutlier is someone who is different from normal people. He is not a part of the rat race. This book shares all the qualities of an Outlier which make them successful in life.

Yesterday’s over, tomorrow may never come, there’s just today and what you can do with it. — Austin KleonThe book is a part of the famous book series of Austin Kleon. It helps you stay productive even in your hard times. It is a must read for someone who often feels demotivated.

Awareness is always the first step toward change. — S. J. ScottWe receive thousands of unnecessary thoughts every single day. Most of them are negative which boosts our stress and anxiety.This book makes you take control of those negative thoughts to live a happy and cheerful life.

If you haven't read this book till now, then you're missing out on a lot of valuable stuff. Rich Dad Poor Dad provides a worthy alternative to study hard, get good grades and get a steady job. It offers you a different path towards controlling your finances and living your life of dreams.

#15. Why Didn’t They Teach Me This in SchoolNet worth is what dollar value you are worth. To come up with this number, you add up all that you own and subtract everything you owe. — Cary SiegelDo you often spend money on useless things? Are you left with zero or very little money at the end of each month? If your answer is yes, then this book is for you. It provides practical advice on how to manage your money like a pro.

#16. How to Win at CollegeSchedule an escape for yourself every single week. And do it alone. Treat it like taking medicine. — Cal NewportOur early 20s is the time when most of us are either studying or pursuing jobs. This book helps you manage your work and life balance during those crucial years.

The simplest way of keeping an eye on your progress is keeping your goals visible and reviewing them regularly. — Joanna JastDistraction is the enemy. It diverts your attention from important things and makes you procrastinate. With this book, now get rid of that habit of procrastination and take control of your time.

Do you often struggle to remember the most important things? Let's face it, it happens with tons of us. Well, no need to worry. This book helps you get rid of it by providing you with the best tools to recall and learn anything faster.