Anti-aging specialists including thrice board-certified specialist Akash Bajaj, are pinpointing senescent cells (aka "zombie cells") as the primary cause of aging. New protocols including hormone replacement therapy, new medications and select supplements are slowing and even reversing the aging process by killing those very cells.

Anti-aging specialists including thrice board-certified specialist Akash Bajaj, are pinpointing senescent cells (aka "zombie cells") as the primary cause of aging. New protocols including hormone replacement therapy, new medications and select supplements are slowing and even reversing the aging process by killing those very cells.

One of the fastest growing areas of medicine is anti-aging and on the vanguard of that specialty is thrice board-certified expert Akash Bajaj, M. D., founder and medical director of Remedy Wellness and Anti-Aging in Marina Del Rey, California. Bajaj points to several new protocols including specialty forms of hormone replacement therapy, new medications and select supplements that have been scientifically proven to kill “zombie” cells that are at the heart of the aging process.

“As we grow older, we not only see its effects on our appearance, but we start to face health challenges that can limit our abilities to do the things we used to do when we were younger,” says Bajaj. “But thanks to recent scientific innovations, we can slow down or even reverse the internal physiological processes responsible for aging.

“We have come to understand that the formation of senescent cells — also referred to as ‘zombie cells’ — are at the root of the aging process and are linked to numerous age-related medical conditions such as Alzheimer’s disease, cancer and type II diabetes,” he explains. “As we age, the cells in our body lose their ability to divide and reproduce and when that happens, they become senescent cells. But anti-aging specialists are becoming more adept at killing those zombie cells and slowing down the formation of new ones thanks to new therapies that are showing tremendous promise.”

Among the tools in Bajaj’s arsenal is Metformin. Though commonly prescribed to treat type 2 diabetes, this powerful molecule helps the body expel old, damaged and senescent cells, which are at the core of slowing down or even reversing the aging process.

To learn more about various anti-aging treatments, visit the website https://www.thinkrws.com/ or call 310-818-4020. Remedy Wellness and Anti-Aging is located at 13160 Mindanao Way, Suite 200. in Marina Del Rey, California.