A fund set up by Dame Deborah James to raise money for cancer research has raised more than £11 million.

The health campaigner, who died in June 2022 from bowel cancer, at the age of just 40, launched the Bowelbabe cancer research fund to raise money for research into personalised medicine for cancer patients just a few weeks before she died.

Her goal was to raise £250,000, but the fund has smashed that target, raising millions of pounds.

Deborah, who was diagnosed with bowel cancer in 2016 at the age of 35, spent her final years campaigning to raise awareness of the condition. Her fund is set to continue to raise as much money as possible to help other cancer sufferers.

Here, FEMAIL looks into Dame Deborah James' advocacy work - and the money she raised to help others struggling with cancer...

Deborah James, who passed away last June at the age of 40, was a mother-of-two - to children Hugo and Eloise - who worked in the educational field.

She has been working as a deputy headteacher when she was diagnosed with stage four cancer in 2016.

At the time, Deborah had been enrolled on a fast-track training course to become a headteacher - after helping to turn around a failing comprehensive in Surrey.

After discovering she had cancer, Deborah started a cancer blog, before going on to become a campaigner and advocate raising awareness.

She also became the host of the podcast You, Me, and the Big C, where she spoke about her own experiences.

Around a month before her death, she revealed she had moved back to her parent's home in Surrey, where she received palliative care.

She also announced that she was setting up the  Bowelbabe charity fund, with donations surpassing £1m within 24 hours.

The health campaigner recorded a video about the fundraising success of Bowelbabe, in which she expressed her gratitude over the money raised - which has hit a massive £11.3 million.

The the clip, she also revealed some of the future plans for money raised by the initiative.

In the video, released in 2023, she said: 'One thing I wanted to do before I passed away was to set up the Bowelbabe fund.

'I wanted to set it up to ensure that more people can benefit from some of the things that I benefited from.

'We will ensure that more people have access to personalised medicine, clinical trials, cutting edge technology to help more and more people live longer with cancer.'

She added: 'Every penny counts. I cannot thank you enough for your support of the Bowelbabe fund. You are awesome.'

Deborah's fund, Bowelbabe, will continue to raise money to increase awareness into the condition as well as raise funds for research.

Cancer Research UK announced in early 2023 initial research projects that will receive support from the fund, which collectively total around £4 million, with more projects due to be confirmed throughout 2023.

Among the studies which will receive funding is one led Professor Trevor Graham, director of the Centre for Evolution and Cancer at the Institute of Cancer Research, London.

It will look at laying the foundations for new precision treatment that could stop bowel cancer spread.

Meanwhile, another project, involving a team of leading scientists, will look at targeting microbes that might cause bowel cancer.

At the Royal Marsden cancer hospital in London, an advanced IR X-ray machine will also offer better imaging resolution that will allow more patients to be treated.