Cyprus

Three remanded for drug trafficking in foot spas…

Opinion

Our View: Government’s approach to energy is clear… Our View: Nothing transparent about election campaign expenses

World

Life & Style

Festival provides platform for improvisation and experimentation

Health

CM Videos

2023 is coming: How do you feel? (video)

Chelsea’s interim manager Frank Lampard found crumbs of comfort from his side’s performance despite a crushing Champions League quarter-final exit against Real Madrid on Tuesday.

Faced with overturning a 2-0 defeat in the Bernabeu last week, Chelsea suffered a similar fate as Rodrygo’s second-half double eased the 14-times European champions into the semis.

It is now four defeats from four games for Lampard since returning in the wake of Graham Potter’s sacking and his side are marooned in 11th place in the Premier League.

Yet for nearly an hour on Tuesday they matched the reigning champions and had they possessed a functioning attack might have given themselves a chance at redemption.

Chelsea have managed only one goal in their last six games despite spending around 600 million pounds ($746 million) on new players in the two transfer windows since American Todd Boehly’s consortium bought the club previously bankrolled by Roman Abramovich.

“I think for 60 minutes the only thing missing was a goal,” Lampard told reporters. “One goal or two goals changes the face of the game and at this level when you’re not clinical you see what happens. The end bit of scoring is crucial and something we need to address.”

Club record scorer Lampard, who now has the dubious honour of being the first Chelsea manager to lose his first four games in charge, must now try to restore some hope among the fans in the seven league games his side have left.

There will almost certainly be no European football for Chelsea next season and Lampard says the club has no divine right to think that it will be only a one-season absence.

But he says the rebuilding job must start in the time he remains at the helm.

“We have to take each step. Day off tomorrow, back into work Thursday and working towards Brentford,” he said. “This club is going to be back. I think the fans appreciated the performance today and we have to latch onto that and go again next year.

“Manchester United have spent time out (of the Champions League), Arsenal have spent time out. It’s impossible to try and predict it. We can set the building blocks now of where we want to get to.”

Cyprus has one of the highest rates of childhood cancer in the world

Once booming Indian startups set for more pain as funding crunch worsens

As is common practice with almost all professional websites, https://cyprus-mail.com (our “Site”) uses cookies, which are tiny files that are downloaded to your device, to improve your experience.

This document describes what information they gather, how we use it, and why we sometimes need to store these cookies. We will also share how you can prevent these cookies from being stored however this may downgrade or ‘break’ certain elements of the Site’s functionality.

How We Use Cookies

We use cookies for a variety of reasons detailed below. Unfortunately, in most cases, there are no industry standard options for disabling cookies without completely disabling the functionality and features they add to the site. It is recommended that you leave on all cookies if you are not sure whether you need them or not, in case they are used to provide a service that you use.

The types of cookies used on this Site can be classified into one of three categories:

Strictly Necessary Cookies: These are essential in order to enable you to use certain features of the website, such as submitting forms on the website.

Functionality Cookies: These are used to allow the website to remember choices you make (such as your language) and provide enhanced features to improve your web experience.

Analytical / Navigation Cookies: These cookies enable the site to function correctly and are used to gather information about how visitors use the site. This information is used to compile reports and help us to improve the site. Cookies gather information in an anonymous form, including the number of visitors to the site, where visitors came from, and the pages they viewed.

You can prevent the setting of cookies by adjusting the settings on your browser (see your browser’s “Help” option on how to do this). Be aware that disabling cookies may affect the functionality of this and many other websites that you visit. Therefore, it is recommended that you do not disable cookies.

In some special cases, we also use cookies provided by trusted third parties. Our Site uses [Google Analytics] which is one of the most widespread and trusted analytics solutions on the web for helping us to understand how you use the Site and ways that we can improve your experience. These cookies may track things such as how long you spend on the Site and the pages that you visit so that we can continue to produce engaging content. For more information on Google Analytics cookies, see the official Google Analytics page.

Google Analytics is Google’s analytics tool that helps our website to understand how visitors engage with their properties. It may use a set of cookies to collect information and report website usage statistics without personally identifying individual visitors to Google. The main cookie used by Google Analytics is the ‘__ga’ cookie.

In addition to reporting website usage statistics, Google Analytics can also be used, together with some of the advertising cookies, to help show more relevant ads on Google properties (like Google Search) and across the web and to measure interactions with the ads Google shows.

Learn more about Analytics cookies and privacy information.

An IP address is a numeric code that identifies your device on the Internet. We might use your IP address and browser type to help analyze usage patterns and diagnose problems on this Site and improve the service we offer to you. But without additional information, your IP address does not identify you as an individual.

When you accessed this Site, our cookies were sent to your web browser and stored on your device. By using our Site, you agree to the use of cookies and similar technologies.

Hopefully, the above information has clarified things for you. As it was previously mentioned, if you are not sure whether you want to allow the cookies or not, it is usually safer to leave cookies enabled in case it interacts with one of the features you use on our Site. However, if you are still looking for more information, then feel free to contact us via email at [email protected]

Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings.

If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This means that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cookies again.