ITV clearly want us all to just stay indoors for the rest of our lives, don't they? Like all those lockdowns weren't enough. But what choice do we have? With winter Love Island now an annual fixture, Big Brother returning later this year AND the regular summer Love Island still vibing around doing its thing (and don't get us started on TOWIE and The Real Housewives of Cheshire) – that's it; no more social life. Our introverted side is relieved, to be honest, so we don't know why we're whinging.

Speaking of which, the summer series of Love Island is just around the corner – and we're not saying that in a sensational Closer kind of way (yes, we're self aware), because according to The Sun, we have a rumoured start date. And it's SOON.

In a cute, wholesome way, as soon as the Sun (the real Sun, not the publication) starting peeking its head out for spring, the summer Love Island rumour mill started spinning right on cue.

Insiders have reportedly told the publication (not the star – wait, this is getting confusing now) that the summer series is kicking off (apologies for the football reference there, but this is our World Cup) at the beginning of June – which, btw, is only eight weeks away.

The source reportedly told the publication, "Love Island will start on June 5, just as people are getting ready to enjoy their summers.

“ITV have already lined up the Islanders who will be heading to the show’s villa in Majorca.

“The cast will fly out late next month ready for the show to begin in just eight weeks.

“It is hugely exciting and those working on the show cannot wait to get started.

“This series will be eight weeks long, meaning the couple who win the show will be in the villa for two months.

“Maya is chomping at the bit to get to work on this series too. Having her on board has given Love Island a real boost and it’s expected that ratings will soar.”

A second source told the publication: “The dates have not been officially confirmed.”

We love you, Kai and Sanam, but our souls are already ready for this. We'll start cancelling plans now...

Maya Jama – and her downright sensational slow-mo walk outfits – is set to return as presenter of the show for a second time, after taking over from Laura Whitmore last year and after RAVE reviews from viewers.

Kai Fagan and Casa Amor bombshell Sanam Harrinanan were crowned king and queen of the winter Love Island villa last month. Buddies Ron Hall and Lana Jenkins were runners up.

Just like all the previous years, Love Island will air on ITV2 at 9pm every weekday and on Sundays. Most episodes last one hour, but for some of the juicer moments they're a little longer.

Saturdays will be reserved for unseen bits.

In other words, you can't go outside this summer.

As well as watching on live TV (imagine!) you can also view Love Island on ITVX.

If you fancy re-watching every single episode from series one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight and nine, then you can. Live your best life.

The Love Island stars can be pretty savage in the villa but surprisingly none of the contestants have ever kept the money for themselves.

They always share and we doubt anyone would actually ever keep the money because it might damage their 'brand' after leaving the show.

But you know what they say - never say never.

If your highlight of Love Island is hilarious voice over guy, who loves to throw shade at the contestants, then look no further than Scottish presenter Iain Stirling – who, fun fact, is married to former host Laura Whitmore.

None of them.

We're JOKING. Although, there are only a few Love Island couples that have actually managed to make it work on the outside world.

At present, Will Young and Jessie Wynter, Tanya Manhenga and Shaq Muhammad, Ron and Lana, and Kai and Sanam from winter Love Island 2023 are all still going strong. Wholesome stuff. What's your secret, guys? Don't say, 'Going on Love Island'.