Bay Area rapper E-40 accused security guards of racial bias after they kicked him out of Golden 1 Center in Sacramento during the Golden State Warriors playoff game against the Kings on Saturday night.

The 55-year-old rap star, born Earl Stevens in Vallejo, said the incident occurred after he spoke to a fan who was heckling him. An NBA source, however, said he was removed after standing up excessively and blocking other fans’ views.

“Unfortunately, it was yet another reminder that — despite my success and accolades as a musician and entrepreneur — racial bias remains prevalent,” the Vallejo rapper said in a statement Sunday morning. “Security saw a disagreement between a Black man and a white woman and immediately assumed that I was at fault.”

E-40 said in a statement quoted by sports media outlets he was “absolutely humiliated” by the Kings’ security team and called on the team to investigate the “appalling conduct that transpired.”

In a statement to The Chronicle, the Kings said: “The Sacramento Kings take these claims seriously and are investigating the facts and circumstances regarding the situation, as we do anytime an accusation like this is made.”

Videos of guards removing E-40 from the arena are circulating on social media. In one video, the rapper appears to be in a heated argument with two men in suits before another man in a Warriors shirt and lanyard — Yusef Wright, a Warriors security guard — intervenes, talks to E-40 and then walks with him off the court.

Golden State Warriors forward Andre Iguodala is seen standing next to E-40 and walks off the floor with him. The video shows fans in Kings’ gear waving mockingly as the rapper walks away and appears to shout something at the crowd.

According to an NBA source, E-40 was standing excessively during the game, blocking the view of fans sitting behind him. The Kings received “multiple” complaints and gave E-40 a warning, but he refused to comply, the source said. Security teams from both teams worked to escort the rapper off the court.

A source close to E-40 told ESPN that the Kings’ security never gave him a warning for standing excessively.

The rap star said he was “subjected to disrespectful heckling” during the game and in response he “turned around and addressed one heckler in an assertive but polite manner.”

Shortly after, he said, security guards approached him and escorted him out of the arena during the fourth quarter of the game, which he described as a “jarring” experience.

At a news conference in Sacramento on Sunday, Warriors guard Klay Thompson said it was “unfortunate” that E-40 was ejected.

“I love 40,” he said. “He’s been our biggest supporter for years, I hope they right that ship because he deserves to be there by our bench. And in my time knowing him, he’s always been respectful and considerate of those around him. So it was very weird to see and I hope it’s resolved.”

Warriors guard Gary Payton II added that “40 is like an uncle to me so I just wanted to make sure he was good. Our guys took care of him. Besides that, I don’t know what really went down. ... I haven’t talked to him, but I got word he’s fine.”

The rapper is known to be a lifelong Warriors fan. He was among the Bay Area celebrities and lawmakers who attended a White House ceremony in January to celebrate the Warriors winning the 2022 NBA Championship.