There’s also a Make My Money Matter campaign starring Game of Thrones actors Kit Harington and Rose Leslie that’ll upset the banks and an epic Formula E spot that sees a driver catapulted out of a plane.

Dove has partnered with Lizzo for this campaign  / Dove

Every week, The Drum picks the top global campaigns from our creativity section.

There’s also a Make My Money Matter campaign starring Game of Thrones actors Kit Harington and Rose Leslie that’ll upset the banks and an epic Formula E spot that sees a driver catapulted out of a plane.

Dove has partnered with Lizzo for this campaign  / Dove

Every week, The Drum picks the top global campaigns from our creativity section.

This week, Dove partnered with Lizzo to tackle toxic ‘body transformation’ posts, the iconic Hamburglar character returned to McDonald’s to seize Big Macs and the final whistle blows on the iconic 30-year partnership between Fifa and EA Sports.

Dove continues to highlight the negative effects social media can have on young people and teens. This new body of work is built around the finding that half of the kids surveyed said that social media makes them feel anxious and many have been exposed to ‘body transformation’ posts.

British Rapper Dave features and narrates the energy of EA Sports FC on the pitch and in culture after its mammoth Fifa rebrand.

McDonald’s infamous animated villain Hamburger makes his first appearance in an ad since 1995.

To mark season nine of Formula E, the motorsport championship for electric cars is exciting fans with this exhilarating ad that will have people on the edge of their seats.

To put pressure on UK banks to stop financing fossil fuel ventures, this ad uses humor to highlight what’s really going on.

In a fun twist for wine brand 19 Crimes, brand ambassador Snoop Dogg is transformed into an action figure for this commercial.

Travel app Trainline is leaning into its quirky side with a new ad campaign that sees one man (and his hairy chest) plucked from obscurity and into the limelight.

To promote its new show Obsession, Netflix opened up an erotic boutique in the heart of London to give people a taste of what the series has in store.

Biodegradable chewing gum brand Nuud called out big, popular brands within the category for their lack of plastic transparency.

Born out of research indicating that a quarter of all cat owners are allergic to cats, this series of short videos transforms swollen eyes, inflamed skin and runny noses into symbols of love.

Interested in creative campaigns? Check out our Ad of the Day section and sign up for our Ads of the Week newsletter so you don’t miss a story.