When I learned Adventures by Disney invited former Disney Imagineer Joe Rohde to join guests on an expedition cruise to the Arctic this July, my immediate thought was, “How do I sign up for this must-see destination and must-do experience?”

So I’m especially thrilled to share the exciting details with you!

On July 10-19, Joe will join the Adventures by Disney Arctic Expedition Cruise and share insights into his incredible 40-year career, including how travel played a significant role in his creative process designing Disney properties worldwide. His vision and imagination were instrumental in creating Disney’s Animal Kingdom Theme Park, Pandora: The World of Avatar, Aulani, A Disney Resort and Spa, and many more guest-favorite destinations and attractions.

Joe’s commitment to authenticity and inspiration is rooted in extensive field research. And as a part of his sessions during this Arctic expedition cruise, he will share his sketching strategies so guests can learn how to best capture their emotions during their own travels. It’s a skill Joe used frequently during his explorations.

Adventures by Disney offers seasonal sailings to the Arctic, and on each trip, nature takes center stage. This awe-inspiring adventure includes gliding through the Svalbard archipelago glaciers and fjords, visiting Longyearbyen, the northernmost settlement in the world, admiring the breathtaking landscape of icebergs, ice floes and the Arctic tundra, hiking on land or taking small boat excursions through the glacial waters, and of course spotting wildlife in their natural habitat. The Arctic is home to polar bears, whales, walruses, reindeer, puffins and more. Daily activities are often “in the moment” and determined by the weather — no two adventures are the same.

Here’s a fun fact about polar bears. Each strand of their outercoat hair is transparent, meaning it has a hollow core (and no pigment). The outer hair protects the undercoat which is colorless but not hollow. So why does a polar bear look white? The physics of light. The undercoat hair reflects light and creates some pretty awesome optics, especially as the skin of a polar bear is black!

The itinerary begins in Oslo where guests will be met by our amazing Adventure Guides who attend to every detail during this trip (we think they are legendary, too!). The following day, guests will fly to Svalbard and board a luxurious PONANT expedition cruise ship, their home for the next seven days. Once onboard, they will meet the Expedition Leaders and naturalists who will guide guests on daily excursions to encounter and become immersed in nature all around. This trip is all about discovering the beauty of the Arctic and learning about the natural world with your family and friends.

During his sessions, Joe will share stories from his illustrious career, including his passion for conservation and nature. In fact, he was instrumental in the creation of the Disney Conservation Fund, which supports organizations worldwide working to save wildlife and inspire positive change.

There are a few spots remaining for this Arctic expedition cruise, and details can be found here. To learn more about exciting trips with Adventures by Disney, including expedition cruises, river cruises and land excursions, visit www.adventuresbydisney.com or call 833-ABD-0103 (833-223-0103).