https://i2-prod.mirror.co.uk/incoming/article29739868.ece/ALTERNATES/s615/1_BRITAIN-ROYALS-COMMONWEALTH.jpg

Prince Harry may not have a chance to reconcile with his father King Charles when he attends the Coronation as the monarch has “a lot on his plate”.

After weeks of dithering, the Duke of Sussex, finally confirmed last week that he would attend the historic event in Westminster Abbey on May 6.

But his wife Meghan, 41, is staying at home with their children Prince Archie, whose birthday is on the same day as the Coronation, and Princess Lilibet, who is two in June.

Harry will be alone when he meets the King, Queen Consort Camilla and Prince and Princess of Wales for the first time since savaging them in his Netflix series and ­explosive memoir Spare.

In the book and series, he criticised Charles’ parenting, said the King was jealous of Meghan and Kate, and accused William of physically attacking him in his tell-all book, which was published in January.

In a previous bombshell interview with Oprah Winfrey, Harry also accused his dad of refusing to take his calls and cutting him off financially.

But the Mirror’s royal editor Russell Myers says it remains to be seen if Harry’s trip to the UK will provide an opportunity for him and his royal relatives to reconcile.

He said: “It goes without saying that the King and other senior royals have an awful lot on their plate.

“When it comes to rehearsing and preparing for the May 6 event, Charles will, as a father, be delighted that his youngest son will be by his side for the most important moment in his life – but they will all have to wait for another day to discuss the mending of their devastated relationships.”

It has emerged that Harry will skip the King’s Coronation concert to fly back home to the US just hours after watching Charles being crowned.

He has told his father he will not stay for the weekend of celebrations following the historic ceremony on May 6.

Now planners will not need to reserve a seat for Harry at the musical extravaganza featuring All Night Long singer Lionel Richie, Take That and Katy Perry.

Instead of attending the May 7 gig at Windsor Castle, he will rush to be with his family in California and belatedly celebrate his son Archie’s fourth birthday, sources revealed.

And Russell believes this shows Harry missing this event shows that he is putting his family first.

He added: “The relationship between Harry, his father and his brother remains incredibly strained.

So despite travelling from California to see his father crowned at the historic Coronation, there is no doubt that he will not want to hang around – especially given Meghan’s decision not to accompany him.

Harry has a further excuse to bail out early given he is missing his son’s fourth birthday.

Last night, Harry was seen for the first time since confirming his attendance at the Coronation during a public appearance for the Invictus Games.

He was projected onto a big screen as he made a speech at an Invictus Games event in Berlin yesterday.

He appeared via video call to thank Germany’s Prime Minister, members of parliament, the team and everyone gathered for their support.

Harry, who was wearing a navy blue suit and white shirt, kicked off his speech by speaking in German.