February 20, 2022; Cleveland, Ohio, USA; NBA great Charles Barkley is honored for being selected to the NBA 75th Anniversary Team during halftime in the 2022 NBA All-Star Game at Rocket Mortgage FieldHouse. Mandatory Credit: Kyle Terada-USA TODAY Sports

February 20, 2022; Cleveland, Ohio, USA; NBA great Charles Barkley is honored for being selected to the NBA 75th Anniversary Team during halftime in the 2022 NBA All-Star Game at Rocket Mortgage FieldHouse. Mandatory Credit: Kyle Terada-USA TODAY Sports

Charles Barkley is one of the most recognizable figures in the NBA. Fondly referred to as Chuckster, he is both an NBA legend and now a celebrated analyst. A man who has achieved so much in his career.

Not only is he a former MVP, but the Round Mound of Rebound has also made 11 All-Star and All-NBA teams. Not to mention he was the NBA rebound leader in 1988. But, his list of accomplishments doesn’t end there. Chuck is also a businessman, and avid golfer, and has even shown an interest in politics.

But, with all these positives, there have to be negatives as well. And, as he has stated several times, gambling is one of his major vices. Although, he has had some luck on occasion. Like the time he came out $700,000 richer after placing a massive $500,000 bet.

A compulsive gambler, Charles Barkley’s “addiction” isn’t exactly news. After all, this is the man who has publically acknowledged gambling as a vice. A man who once admitted to losing $2.5 million while playing blackjack. Clearly, someone who should stay away from the betting tables.

However, there are times when even Lady Luck has shown favor to Sir Charles. As was revealed in a piece by Sports Illustrated, Chuck, who had a net worth of $35 million placed a massive $500,000 bet on the Patriots winning the Super Bowl in 2002, and boy did it pay off.

Not only did he win the bet, but he also walked out $700,000 richer. All thanks to his trust in New England and his good friend Bill Belichick.

“He estimates his net worth at $35 million, a figure that goes up or down depending on his luck in Las Vegas. He bet more than $500,000 on the Patriots in the Super Bowl (New England coach Bill Belichick is a close friend) at the Mandalay Bay Sports Book and walked away $1.2 million ahead. He’s not always that fortunate, though, and he admits that ‘gambling is my vice, and I’ll have to address it sometime in the future. But not now.'”

• Tom Brady + Belichick each win their 1st Super Bowl

• Patriots pull off the second biggest upset in Super Bowl historypic.twitter.com/IV7MjrCEso

It was perhaps the biggest win Barkley ever had while betting. But, certainly not enough to offset the $30 million he has lost over the course of his lifetime.

Winning $700,000 while gambling is all well and good. But, it doesn’t really matter when you have admittedly lost $30 million. That’s right, in an interview with Graham Bensinger a few years back, Charles Barkley claimed to have lost $1 million at least 10 to 20 times while gambling.

Charles Barkley tells @GrahamBensinger he has lost $1 million dollars on gambling at least 10 to 20 times pic.twitter.com/GuHyIRzTyb

The fact of the matter is, in small amounts, even gambling can be fun. But, it’s clear that it would be in Chuck’s best interests that he stays away from the tables.