LONDON—The United Kingdom has been through a long history and like China, it once was and still is a very influential country. What is different, however, is that the United Kingdom has preserved its history. Shen Yun Performing Arts is reviving the Chinese culture lost when communism took power in China.

“I personally think it’s very good; people must be aware of the tradition of any culture all over the world,” said Sunil Chopra,  Mayor of London Borough of Southwark.

Shen Yun is based in New York, and Mr. Chopra expressed his support for Shen Yun’s efforts in making people, especially the younger generation, aware of what China was before communism.

“If you don’t show people what China was, people will not know. And the young generation will never know what the tradition of the Chinese culture is,” he said.

Shen Yun’s artists are trained in classical Chinese dance. With the support of Shen Yun’s live orchestra, the production is able to present moving stories from Chinese history, literature, and mythology.

“Very impressed. Very talented stars you got here. They are showing you history, Chinese culture, and Chinese music as well. So, on the whole, I think it is very, very impressive. I think Shen Yun is doing good work to promote Chinese culture,” said Mr. Chopra.

Although Shen Yun is promoting Chinese culture, its truthful depiction of present-day China makes it difficult for Shen Yun to perform in China.

“I personally think there’s nothing wrong with promoting your old tradition, culture, and there’s no message which destroys the image of China,” shared Mr. Chopra.

Being in the audience, Mr. Chopra could see the people sitting with him and their expressions of appreciation.

“You can see thousands of people here, and they all are enjoying [the performance.] This shows that people love to see these sorts of things. People love to see the tradition; people love to see the lovely costumes. And it shows people should come and see the history of different cultures and different countries,” Mr. Chopra said.

Since Shen Yun’s inception in 2006, it has grown from one company to eight. All the artists and the production team must work together to be able to present an all-new production each year.

“Excellent. Keep on doing good work, and I’ll definitely come and watch you again. And they really work hard. I must say thank you to them for the hard work and their dedication,” Mr. Chopra said.

The Epoch Times is a proud sponsor of Shen Yun Performing Arts. We have covered audience reactions since Shen Yun’s inception in 2006.