With consumers’ increasing demand for environmentally sound produce, leaping onto fossil fuel tractors to roar to city protests sends the wrong message to the world about New Zealand farming.

So says farmer, businessman and marketer Geoff Ross, who has no doubt farmers have plenty to protest about.

Yes, we’ve been getting a kicking, but farmers need to read the global buyer room, he says. There are opportunities.

That room is saying, we want produce that’s good for the environment, with low carbon emissions, sustainably produced, and with animal welfare protections.

READ MORE:

* New Zealand farming has the change reflex - so why aren't we using it when it's needed the most?

* The Monitor economy Q&A – Geoff Ross, 42 Below founder, investor and farmer

* Agri-tourism thrives as virtual farm tours go global and New Zealanders take to the hills for rural breaks

Groundswell protesters roll into Hamilton. What message did they send environmentally sensitive overseas consumers?

Convoys of tractors don’t send that message. Nor do farmers protesting about (amongst other things) Government proposals to lower carbon emissions.

In making their point, farmers run the risk of damaging prospective sales in the likes of the UK, which ran newspaper and TV stories about convoys of angry Kiwi farmers driving into town.

“Farmers are feeling they're getting the bash, which is true. A lot of farmers feel that way right now. It's made more acute because financially the returns are really low, particularly in sheep and beef,” Ross says.

His solution is to embrace the changes customers want, not to fight them.

“Rather than being defensive about the things we might be doing wrong, we can tell the world of the many things we do right,” he says.

Groundswell called on farmers to join its “we’re not going to take it” protest against the Government plans to charge farmers for greenhouse gas emissions.

“Brands today are not built by an advertisement from a corporate, and their agency on the other side of the world. They are built by a system of influencers, creators, producers, users and endorsers.

“If we are to build greater awareness and competitive advantages for our country’s biggest earner, then our 50,000 farmers are a vital part of building this ecosystem.

“We can no longer just leave it to the larger co-ops like Fonterra, Alliance and so forth – we have to get online and get our farming stories out to the world.

“Our... farmers are an authentic part of the food and fibre we create will be far more powerful than a handful of marketing departments. They are vital.”

One-stop producer boards have got between the farmer and their customer, so messages about what is wanted by consumers and how to speak to them can get muddled, Ross says.

“We've built this wall between farmer and consumer. And that may have been OK, let's say 10-20 years ago, because in marketing those organisations were a single desk, and they did single-desk marketing, and that probably worked then.

“That is not how marketing works today. Social media itself was built through like-minded people sharing their stories. It is how most new brands are built. It takes a village on social media to build a brand. And that village can be pretty big.

“You have all number of advocates and champions of a particular brand. That's because of our reliance on digital media, that is much more powerful than before with a full page advertisement in The Guardian in the UK, for instance.”

UK retailer Tesco is taking steps to ensure all fresh produce, meat and dairy it sells is sustainable

In December, British supermarket chain Tesco wants to be assured that all fresh produce, meat and dairy it sells is sustainable, including that which comes from New Zealand farmers.

Tracking emissions progress on farms would become a requirement for supplying to Tesco, which has more than 2300 stores across Europe and Asia.

Ross saw that as a great opportunity for farmers.

“Imagine if all farms in New Zealand tagged @Tescos with their stories, and illustrated what they are doing on-farm to reduce emissions and increase removals (sequestration) with plantings and reforestation.

“We all tag #climatepositivefarmsNZ, then use that tag to comment on key food sites worldwide – chef sites, food influencers, food media and so on. That would be a great positive force on Tescos and their customers, building demand for our food.”

The Ross family farm – Lake Hawea Station near Wanaka – the first certified carbon positive farm in Australasia.

You don't have to look far for Lake Hawea Station branding.

Ross is a trustee of Pure Advantage, a not-for-profit organisation of businesspeople who believe in green growth. He founded Vodka company - 42 Below and has been chairman of Trilogy skincare, Ecoya Fragrance and Savor Group.

Lake Hawea Station was at the centre of controversy last June, when its environmental practices were shown in an episode of TV’s Country Calendar.

Ross and wife Justine bought the 6500ha high country station in 2019, converting it into a carbon positive certified farm, where they now run 10,000 merino fine wool sheep.

In an animal welfare-based decision, a new shearing model was devised that rewarded shearers on sheep handling, not just speed.

Classical music was played to calm the sheep, with some viewers calling the decisions "woke," and "PC BS".

Eight months on, Ross says these measures are producing premiums. Increasing returns is not part of any definition of woke.

Speed might result in greater throughput, but not in greater quality.

“Toyota wouldn't be saying, ‘hey, buy our cars because we build them really fast’, that's not really going to give you the right impression of the value of that car or in our case, how the sheep have been cared for,” he says.

Geoff Ross and the white woolshed (intended to detect blood) has been written into Kiwi farming folklore.

“Throughput is important on farm, but for a customer it's not – so we have to balance this with what a customer wants.

“We've now shared that story with our customers on the other side of the world, and they are sharing it with their customers.

“It's creating a premium for our wool. It's a win-win; our customers have value in the wool, and they can demonstrate that it's been safely harvested from sheep. The shearers enjoy their day more as well.

“There is a better mood in the shed, and our shearers have said they’ve taken this new approach with them to other sheds.”

It’s not traditional farming, but it is tailored to the way markets are in 2023, and what modern consumers see as important to them. It’s innovation in the way New Zealand farmers have traditionally innovated, with world-leading ideas such as the herringbone milking shed.

“There will be a real shift towards natural fibres as consumers realise polyesters are not only bad for the planet when you make them, they're bad for the planet when you wash them, and bad for the planet when you put them in a landfill,” Ross says.

“So the value of wool is going to start growing again. If we can start telling those messages, and being quite proud of them as farmers then we're going to access those lifts in value.

“Let have 50,000 classic Kiwi farmers telling our story. It’s a billion-dollar consumer opportunity ... if we embrace this change, showing New Zealand as climate positive, environmentally sound farming.”

What do you think? Email Sundayletters@stuff.co.nz.