Yabello, Borena, with frequent travels to the areas of operation (Dhas and Dubluk).

While performing the duties of this job in the field, he/she may be exposed to precarious settings under high-security risks and/or very basic living conditions and outside weather conditions, as well as to infectious diseases.

Duration: 12 months, with the possibility of an extension

Degree in business and economics studies, international relations, sociology, development studies, or other related fields.

At least 8 years of working experience in Ethiopia, at least 5 years of working experience as a Project Coordinator/Project Manager, and at least 3 years of working experience in the Borena zone.

Substantial experience in the administration of digital data collection and analysis tools (including platform administration, questionnaire creation, field data collection, and data analysis), through KoBo Toolbox or similar platforms.

Strong qualitative and quantitative research skills, including qualitative and quantitative sampling, developing data collection tools, conducting qualitative analysis, and conducting a descriptive analysis.

Solid diplomatic skills: the ability to manage a variety of internal and external relationships, especially with partners.

Self-motivated, able to take the initiative, resilient, and able to work independently.

Very flexible and with a positive attitude.

Excellent knowledge of Oromomifa, Amharic, and English (written and spoken) is essential.

Previous experience in working in projects financed by the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation.

Highly result-oriented with the ability to manage workload and stress.

CESVI is a secular and independent humanitarian organization, founded in Bergamo, Italy in 1985. CESVI works in 23 countries across Africa, Asia, Latin America and Europe, supporting the most vulnerable populations in the promotion of human rights, in the achievement of their aspirations, for sustainable development and in response to the most severe emergencies.

CESVI is registered in Ethiopia since 2018 and has been working in refugee camps in Tigray and with pastoralists communities in Oromia. In 2022, CESVI started operations in Amhara (COVID-19 prevention measures and income-generating activities for people with disabilities in conflict-affected areas), Harar and Dire Dawa (promoting socio-economic integration of people on the move and potential migrants, with a focus on people with disabilities, along the Eastern Ethiopian migration route) and Beninshangul-Gumuz (in the Bambasi refugee camp). In May 2023, CESVI will start the project “Humanitarian / Development / Peace Nexus nelle comunità agropastorali sfollate e residenti nel Borena - Oromia (HUDEPE Borena)” - AID 12470, funded by the Italian Agency for Development Cooperation.

The following responsibilities are not exhaustive. They aim to provide a clear sense of the nature and scope of jobs at this grade:

Ensure technical support in the design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of CESVI activities in the Borena zone;

Select target communities and project priority groups jointly with project staff, local government representatives and communities, and other relevant stakeholders;

Lead the development of procurement, activity and budget plans for the project;

Lead the regular data collection process on project progress, and compile monthly, quarterly, and annual report on the projects;

Document regular significant success and human-interest stories, best practices and photos;

Responsible for overseeing implementation of project activities in accordance with approved work plan time schedules and budgets;

Provide technical backstopping and facilitation, work closely with partners, field staff, and cluster based stakeholders, networks, and community members to ensure achievement of objectives in timely and cost effective manner;

Identify livelihoods and environmental constraints/concerns and suggest possible recommendations to the Country Director;

Facilitate that regular meetings are conducted by the project staff and reports are prepared and submitted to the Country Director;

Ensure core humanitarian standards (CHS) are adhered to in the implementation of the project activities;

Supervise the organization of all Donor’s Audit requests and Expenditure verification in coordination with HQ, according to CESVI external audit procedure

Contribute to the implementation of CESVI’s Country Strategy with a focus on humanitarian preparedness, response, and resilience-building initiatives

Represent CESVI in cluster or working group meetings at the regional state level and share a summary of the meetings timely;

Represent CESVI in appropriate humanitarian fora at a local level with government authorities, UN organisations, NGOs, private sector, and donor agencies.

Raise the profile of CESVI’s programmes through participation in national humanitarian and resilience fora.

Represent CESVI in relevant coordination platforms (Consortium meetings and events, Alliance2015’s meetings and events, etc;).

The main duty station will be Yabello with frequent travel to the field (Dhas and Dubluk). Travels will represent at least the 50% of the monthly activities.

New activities and tasks that may be necessary or useful for the proper and timely implementation of the project tasks may be defined jointly by CESVI and the “Senior Project Coordinator”.

The collaboration will start in May 2023.

CESVI has a zero-tolerance approach to any harm to, or exploitation of, a child or a vulnerable adult by any of our staff, related persons or partners.

CESVI commitment to being a safe organization begins with the staff recruitment process which includes meticulous checks, such as criminal records checks or check disclosure of previous convictions, to ensure children and vulnerable people are safeguarded and abuse is prevented. Safeguarding checks are part of the selection process performance

For further information regarding CESVI policies: https://www.cesvi.eu/who-we-are/transparency/our-policies/