Just In

Seaford Man Sentenced to Jail and 10 Years’ Probation as Sex...

Attorney General James to Host First Ever Statewide Gun Buyback on...

Hot Topics

Man Charged with Murder and DWI After Fatal Assault at Baldwin...

Mastic Man Sentenced to 10 Years in Prison for String of 2021...

Press Releases

Long Island's Hidden Fortune: How to Claim Your Share of New...

Legislator Lafazan, Citizens Campaign for the Environment: Help...

Best and Worst States to Find a Job in 2023

Former President Donald Trump files a lawsuit against Long Island native and ex-lawyer Michael Cohen for over $500 million, in relation to his testimony before a Manhattan grand jury that indicted Trump on 34 felony ...

Former President Donald Trump is filing a lawsuit against his former lawyer, Michael Cohen, for over $500 million. This news was revealed through a filing submitted in a Florida court on Wednesday.

Cohen, who is originally from Long Island, had testified before a Manhattan grand jury that eventually indicted Trump on 34 felony counts of falsifying business records. The indictment related to the Trump Organization's alleged falsification of financial records in order to secure loans and tax breaks.

The lawsuit against Cohen comes as no surprise given the tense relationship between the two men. Cohen had previously been a staunch ally of Trump but later turned against him, accusing the former President of various wrongdoings.

This latest legal action is likely to add fuel to the already fiery public feud between Trump and Cohen. It remains to be seen how the lawsuit will proceed and what the outcome will be, but it is certain to attract significant media attention in the weeks and months ahead.

Seaford Man Sentenced to Jail and 10 Years’ Probation as Sex Offender for "Deepfaked" Sexual Images

Inwood Man Arrested After Allegedly Kidnapping Woman, Robbing and Beating Her with a Pipe

The Long Way Home – Literary Traveler Talk Ghosts, Family and Career with Jedediah's New Chef

Special Olympics Long Island Region to Host Rugged Run for Respect Get Down and Dirty for a Great Cause

Groupon’s $10 Presidents’ Day Promotion Honors a Man Who was Never President

AG Schneiderman Announces Former Bank of America CFO Joe L. Price Barred for 18 Months from Serving as Officer or Director of Any Public Company

The Long Island Chapter of The Alzheimer's Association Presents a Free Caregivers Conference During National Family Caregivers Month

Used Car Retailer CarMax Plans Two Locations as its First For Long Island

Five Places on Long Island For Pasta Night

Governor Hochul Announces $30 Million to Expand Child Care Programs in Underserved Areas of New York

LongIsland.com - Your Name sent you Article details of "Long Island Native Michael Cohen Faces Lawsuit from Former President Trump for Over $500 Million"