QUOTE OF THE DAY: “While the governor enjoys his opulent furnishings, teachers are being fired, students are falling further behind, and property tax bills are rising. It may look good in his office, but it’s not a good look for Governor Murphy.” – Senator Durr

In West New York, mayoral candidate Commissioner Cirillo says voters are bewildered by the politics of former Rep. Sires in the mayoral collision, as Cirillo hones in on a ‘new direction’ and ‘new leadership’ campaign message. Cirillo and his slate released their quality of life priorities.

In Trenton, the city released a RFP for Clinton Court.

In Berkeley Heights, Councilwoman Kingsley presented a overview of the draft budget, according to TAPinto.

In Bernards Township, the Democratic candidates launched a ‘listening tour’, according to NJ Hills.

In Bernardsville, the Palmer Square plan advanced despite numerous concerns, according to NJ Hills.

In Bordentown, the EMS is being privatized, according to Burlington County Times.

In Bridgewater, residents spoke about concerns that the monument sign is contradictory to the town’s aesthetics, according to TAPinto. The affordable housing plan was revised, according to MyCentralJersey.

In Clinton, the purchase of a $1M fire truck was approved, according to NJ Hills.

In Denville, the average home will pay $30 more in municipal taxes this year, according to NJ Hills.

In Flemington, the council president is looking to facilitate a conversation between Weintraub and others, according to TAPinto.

In Hanover, a budget with a slight tax increase was introduced, according to NJ Hills.

In Jersey City, the council voted for a 6-month moratorium on cannabis dispensary applications, according to Hudson County View.

In Kearny, the town moved to acquire a church for a new public arts center, according to NJ.com.

In Long Hill, Scanlon will remain recreation director, according to NJ Hills.

In Madison, the council introduced solar energy ordinances, according to NJ Hills.

In Montclair, the community aired concerns over the Lackawanna Plaza redevelopment, according to TAPinto.

In Parsippany, the budget will be introduced today, according to TAPinto.

In Paterson chaos in the city could affect the mayor’s political future, according to Paterson Press.

In Perth Amboy, 73 acres of waterfront is being redeveloped, according to MyCentralJersey.

In Piscataway, the school district is being sued over the LGBTQIA+ curriculum, according to MyCentralJersey.

In Readington, the budget was introduced, according to NJ Hills.

In Spotswood, the town faces a lawsuit from its first female cop, according to MyCentralJersey.

In Warren, the BOE and teachers union counsel will collaborate on a dispute fact sheet, according to NJ Hills.

In Washington, the township is considering merging the planning and zoning boards into the Land Use Board, according to NJ Hills.

In Wayne, there’s politics surrounding the arboretum and first responders, according to TAPinto.

In Woodbridge, a plan was unveiled to bring more parking to Main Street, according to MyCentralJersey.

ICYMI: In Morristown, workers rallied against automation; in Manville, suspended police chief charged; in Howell, former police chief charged; in Newark, Kelly slapped with ELEC complaint; in Dover, Correa announced running mates as 4 Dems vie for mayor; in Dover, Correa won Dem support