A POPULAR crisp brand is to ditch its current logo in a major shake-up.

Taylors Snacks will replace the Mackie’s of Scotland name on its crisp and popcorn range with its own branding - but the products will remain the same.

It comes after last year’s buy-out by the Taylor family, of the joint venture established between the Taylor and Mackie family businesses in 2009.

The bold packaging features a thistle above the new Taylors logo, with the new-look products set to hit shelves this summer.

James Taylor, managing director at Taylors Snacks said Mackie’s Crisps' customers will still be able to find their favourite type of crisps.

He added: “Showcasing our new image is a massive milestone for us at Taylors Snacks. In what has been months of work behind the scenes, we’re incredibly proud of the fresh look that represents the Taylors brand, our products and the journey.

“Having a family culture is key to what we do at Taylors, so we wanted to make sure that everyone involved in the business – from technical to tasting – played a pivotal role in the transition.

“We’re confident that our name and contemporary rebrand will unlock a new level of growth for the business and allow our tried and tested product to reach new customers while continuing to delight our existing customers.”

The Perthshire-based joint venture company, founded in 2009, was called Mackie’s at Taypack.

The Taylor family purchased the remaining shares of the joint venture in 2022, and now plans to move all crisps, popcorn and lentil waves produce over to the new Taylor Snacks branding and company name from next month.

Mac Mackie, executive chairman at Mackie’s of Scotland said: “We have enjoyed a great few years with the Taylors founding and building up a Scottish range of crisps and popcorn.

"We wish the Taylors team all the best and look forward to seeing more developments and new products as they continue to grow.

"In the meantime, we’re excited to keep making and developing Scotland’s favourite ice cream and our farm-made chocolate on the renewably powered family farm.”

A savvy shopper recently revealed what the codes REALLY mean on supermarket fresh produce.

One woman has been praised by other shoppers after taking to Facebook to offer an explanation as to what the numbers indicate - after many stores ditched the best before dates on certain items.

We pay for your stories and videos! Do you have a story or video for The Scottish Sun? Email us at scoop@thesun.co.uk or call 0141 420 5200