Eddie Hearn has admitted he would 'love to do something' with Francis Ngannou after his decision to leave the UFC and the promoter did not rule out the prospect of a heavyweight boxing fight with Anthony Joshua.

Ngannou elected not to resign with the UFC in January after failing to agree terms on a new contract that Dana White claimed would've made the 36-year-old the highest paid heavyweight in UFC history.

Ngannou, who ended his UFC career with a 12-2 record, has held longstanding boxing ambitions.

The 36-year-old has previously been linked with crossover fights against boxing stars Deontay Wilder and Dillian Whyte.

The MMA Hour host Ariel Helwani raised the prospect of Ngannou fighting Joshua to the Briton's promoter Hearn.

Hearn agreed Ngannou's power would give him a chance to knock out Joshua, adding that fighters would believe they had an opportunity to beat the two-time heavyweight world champion after his unconvincing win over Jermaine Franklin.

The promoter, however, stressed the Ngannou would struggle to match the skill of the sport's heavyweights.

'Personally, you cannot in a million years, with Francis Ngannou’s ability in boxing and pedigree in boxing, go in and compete technically, skill-wise — not just with AJ, but with any top 20 heavyweight in the world,' Hearn said.

'But in that division, the difference is, what you can do is you could knock someone out. So it doesn’t matter whether Francis fights Anthony Joshua — Tyson Fury, I agree with you, horrible fight for Francis Ngannou because he’d he just poke him around.

'Deontay Wilder, Dillian Whyte, Derek Chisora, Jermaine Franklin, he has no chance against those guys, other than to be aggressive, trade up, and catch someone clean and take him out.

'I think that you are right in your statement, people would give fighters a much better chance against AJ having watched that performance. In your world, that translates to Francis Ngannou. And why not? I don’t feel like it’s a fight that’s going to continue the development of Anthony Joshua under his new trainer.

'I had lunch with Francis Ngannou, you know his story, I was completely gobsmacked by the story of this man.

'People need to be educated about what that man has been through and his story, I found him fascinating, a lovely guy, I would love to do something.'

Joshua's win over Franklin at the O2 Arena marked the 33-year-old's first win for two years, following successive defeats to Ukraine's Oleksandr Usyk.

He surprised fans earlier this month by revealing his next fight would be in December, having originally been expected to return to the ring in the summer.

Hearn has admitted the Watford-born star would ideally like another fight before taking on the likes of Tyson Fury and Deontay Wilder.

If Joshua does decide to fight again before December, Dillian Whyte could be in pole position to be in the opposite corner.

Ngannou has also refused to rule out a possible return to the UFC to fight Jon Jones.

Jones defeated Ciryl Gane in the main event of UFC 285 to become a two-weight world champion.

The American succeeded Ngannou as the heavyweight champion, after the Cameroonian-French fighter vacated his crown.