Pirates and White Sox benches cleared for a near-brawl on Sunday in Pittsburgh after Buccos star shortstop Oneil Cruz fractured his left ankle colliding with Chicago catcher Seby Zavala.

The 6-foot-7 Cruz, who has become a cult-like figure for his raw talent and athleticism, was on third base in the sixth inning at Pittsburgh's PNC Park. When Pirates third baseman Ke'Bryan Hayes hit a chopper up the third-base line, Cruz came home, but so too did the throw from Yoan Moncada.

Perhaps not expecting the throw to arrive so quickly, Cruz slid late before colliding with Zavala as his left ankle rolled awkwardly.

Things briefly grew heated as Cruz's ankle was being examined by White Sox trainers. Zavala took exception to Cruz's late slide, leading to an exchange between Zavala and Pittsburgh designated hitter Carlos Santana. The benches and bullpens cleared but no punches were thrown.

'Things happen and everybody's competing,' Zavala said afterwards. 'Tempers get high sometimes.'

Santana took issue with Zavala's reaction to Cruz, which occurred as the Pirates shortstop was still writhing in pain at home plate.

'Everything is quick,' Santana said, as per the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. 'What I don't like is that [Zavala] screamed at [Cruz] when he got hurt. I had to support my teammate.'

'He's always barking,' agreed Pirates pitcher Johan Oviedo. 'You see a man down, he can't move, he's in pain, and all [Zavala] worries about is [complaining] about what happened? It got everyone mad.

'Santana got in the middle. He was defending Cruz. [Zavala] kept going. It was like, ''Bro, just chill. There's a man on the ground.'' Hopefully, he will learn one day.'

Unfortunately for the Pirates, who won the game, 1-0, Cruz fractured his ankle on the play, and is now out four months amid Pittsburgh's solid 6-3 start.

'We've got to take time to try and be in (Cruz's) shoes and you know, just hope he heals up and gets himself back,' Pittsburgh outfielder Andrew McCutchen said. 'But it's a tough blow for sure for the team.'

Rodolfo Castro moved from second base to shortstop after Cruz's exit. Yet Castro knows he doesn't have all of Cruz's considerable tools.

'I'm going to be ready for whatever position they need me to play and I'm going to give 100 percent,' Castro said. 'It still hurts as I'm not gonna be able to see my teammate next to me for a while, but I'm ready for whatever comes.'

'I'm very close to him,' Santana said of Cruz. 'It hurts.'

Cruz is scheduled to miss the next four months of action.

'Obviously losing Oneil is a blow because he's a big part of what we do on both sides of the ball,' Pittsburgh manager Derek Shelton said. ' The flip side of that, because of the depth we've created over the last couple [of] years we're probably in a better spot to handle it than we have been previously.'