We use cookies to enhance site navigation, provide a personalized experience, and analyze site usage. By clicking Accept All Cookies, closing this banner, or continuing to use our site, you consent to store the cookies described in the Privacy Policy on your device.

We support the California Consumer Privacy Act CCPA and CalOPPA. The protection of your data is critically important to us, which is why we have extended the CCPA and CalOPPA regulations to cover everyone that uses services in the US., So you know your data is constantly being protected. Your profile is only accessible to ExecSearches staff. We do not sell your information to anyone.

This page requires a viewport of at least 768px to display properly.

THE CITY OF NEW YORK

1. A baccalaureate degree including or supplemented by 24 credits in accounting, including at least one course each in auditing, U. S. taxation, advanced accounting, and cost accounting and four years of full-time progressively responsible tax related auditing or tax accounting experience at least 18 months of which must have been in an administrative or managerial capacity, requiring independent decision making concerning program management or planning, allocation of resources and scheduling and assignment of work.

2. High school or equivalent and 24 credits in accounting including at least one course each in auditing, U.S. taxation, advanced accounting and cost accounting and six years full-time progressively responsible tax related auditing or tax accounting experience at least 18 months of which must have been in an administrative or managerial capacity requiring independent decision making concerning program management or planning, allocation of resources and the scheduling and assignment of work.

3. Education and/or experience equivalent to "1" or "2" above.  However, all candidates must have at least 24 credits in accounting from an accredited college including at least one course each in auditing, U.S. taxation, advanced accounting and cost accounting. Appropriate education may be substituted for the general tax related auditing or tax accounting experience (but not for the 18 months of administrative or managerial experience described above) at the rate of one year of college for six months of experience up to a maximum of four years college for two years of experience.  A master's degree with a major in accounting, auditing or taxation may be substituted for an additional year of the general tax related auditing or tax accounting experience.  In all case, all candidates must have at least 18 months of tax related auditing or tax accounting experience in an administrative or managerial capacity.

New York City residency is generally required within 90 days of appointment. However, City Employees in certain titles who have worked for the City for 2 continuous years may also be eligible to reside in Nassau, Suffolk, Putnam, Westchester, Rockland, or Orange County. To determine if the residency requirement applies to you, please discuss with the agency representative at the time of interview.

The City of New York is an inclusive equal opportunity employer committed to recruiting and retaining a diverse workforce and providing a work environment that is free from discrimination and harassment based upon any legally protected status or protected characteristic, including but not limited to an individual's sex, race, color, ethnicity, national origin, age, religion, disability, sexual orientation, veteran status, gender identity, or pregnancy.

Get jobs like this directly to your email!

Get the latest job postings sent directly to your email. Choose between a variety of filters to create a job alert matching your needs, and be the first one to be notified about new job posts.

Get the latest job postings sent directly to your email. Choose between a variety of filters to create a job alert matching your needs and be the first one to be notified about new job posts.

Whether you are starting from scratch and need strategic advice, or need to polish your resume and cover letters, our professionals can help.