A Melbourne toddler is set to undergo complex brain surgery after a "freak fall" resulted in him being in a coma for over a week.

It was a "normal day" in March when three-year-old Noah fell from a high height onto concrete, landing straight onto his head near mum, Rachael, and eight-month-old brother Nate.

With multiple fractures to his skull, including a fractured eye socket, paramedics placed Noah into an induced coma and rushed him to hospital where he has remained ever since. After eight long days for the family, Noah awoke from his coma last Friday and doctors now intend to perform surgery.

"Many specialist teams will be involved," Rachael's cousin, Melissa, told Yahoo News Australia. "Fractured parts of his skull will be removed for the plastic surgery team to reconstruct."

Parents Rachael and Stephen have remained by Noah's bedside and are currently not working as they prioritise caring for both of their children during this challenging time.

"There is ups and downs. There are days where they feel super positive and other days where they are an absolute emotional wreck," Melissa said.

A GoFundMe page has been created to raise money to aid the family financially, while also funding Noah's recovery, which will involve teaching the toddler to move the right side of his body again.

"It's hard to know what the future holds for him now. It's going to be a long, long road to recovery," Melissa added.

Despite seeking assistance from the public, the family has decided not to share specific details of the incident, including the location where the fall occurred. When pressed by Yahoo, Melissa said: "We would rather not share".

"It's one of those things that you NEVER think will happen to you."

After experiencing the "unimaginable", Rachael and Stephen are remaining optimistic in the face of Noah's long journey ahead and plan to do everything they can to support him.

"They're the most positive people I know. Always looking for the positives in everything."

Do you have a story tip? Email: newsroomau@yahoonews.com.

You can also follow us on Facebook, Instagram, TikTok and Twitter and download the Yahoo News app from the App Store or Google Play.