Met Police said the suspect failed to stop and officers were unable to find him

Met Police said the suspect failed to stop and officers were unable to find him

A cyclist chased by police officers on commandeered e-bikes is wanted on recall to prison, detectives have revealed.

Yesterday video footage was shared online showing police in pursuit if a man near the River Wandle in south London.

The clip, shared on Twitter, was captioned 'The British Police are in pursuit of a man cycling away with a stolen bottle of Hennessy'.

Met Police have since told MailOnline they were actually trying to stop a man identified as being wanted on recall to prison, who had failed to stop for police - and is still at large.

The footage showed how members of the public lent police their bikes in order to speed up the chase down the river path on Monday.

Police have since thanked the helpful bystanders who they rewarded with a front seat ride in a marked patrol car.

The video yesterday showed a discarded bottle of brandy on the ground, which was dropped during the chase.

The full statement from the Met Police said: 'On Monday 9 April, officers attempted to stop a man cycling along Penwith Road, SW18 after he was identified as being wanted on recall to prison.

'The suspect evaded officers and continued to cycle along Summerly Street and Trewint Street, before turning right into Garratt Lane, failing to stop for police.

'Officers left the marked vehicle and attempted to chase the suspect on foot.

'Due to the quick thinking of those involved and helpful members of the public, the officers managed to use their bikes in an attempt to catch the suspect.

'During the pursuit, a bottle of whiskey was dropped and recovered by officers at the scene. The man made off and officers were unable to locate him.

'Enquiries are ongoing to trace him.

'The bikes were returned to the members of the public and they were both driven to their intended destination.

'As a thanks for their help, they were rewarded with a front seat in the marked car, and were grateful for the work of local officers.'