* This partnership with Women Choice is aligned with Arab Women Authority’s mission of providing support to women of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) in their entrepreneurship journey through trainings and funding

* This agreement with Arab Women Authority follows the announcement of Women Choice to create in total one million jobs across the Arab world

Tuesday 18 April 2023, Dubai, UAE: Arab Women Authority and Women Choice, an international organization dedicated to advancing women’s personal and professional development, have partnered to support the ‘Social Innovation Incubator (SII) For Women’s Employment’ program – that will help create one million jobs for women across the Middle East and North Africa (MENA), supporting the fast-growing regional economy and continuous innovation. Here, Arab Women Authority have specifically committed to help create one hundred and thousand jobs out of the one million committed by SII.

The official signature of the agreement was made between Arab Women Authority presented by its Secretary General His Excellency Mohammad Al-Dulaimi, and Nezha Alaoui, CEO of Women Choice, on Tuesday April 11th in Dubai International Financial Centre (DIFC), at the one and only Capital Club, the only business club in the UAE and the chosen place of key decision makers and regional leaders to discuss and work on important topics such as women’s employment.

“Capital Club Dubai, based in the United Arab Emirates, is a place for continuous innovation that enables initiatives that create impact. Being in the heart of the Financial Centre, with members who are thought leaders from diverse industries, we are happy to facilitate the launch of the Social Innovation Incubator by Women Choice. This is important work for women employment, that will help towards more gender equity in this region. Our own women in business committee have been actively partnering in the progressive narrative with the private and public sector towards diversity, equity, and inclusion,” said Mohamed Karmaoui, General Manager at Capital Club Dubai.

SII was established by Women Choice to provide comprehensive support for women entrepreneurs and create employment opportunities in their chosen field. The program will also provide tailored mentorship and dedicated training on various topics needed to grow as an entrepreneur and a skilled leader.

“This project, SII, is my priority for the next five years and I am very pleased to see the positive response from leaders in the UAE, the first stop of this journey across the Arab world from MENA. The addition of great partners to the initiatives will be a differentiator and the reason why the program will truly help women’s employment on the field,” said Nezha Alaoui, Founder & CEO of Women Choice.

Arab Women Authority is an Arab non-governmental organization established since 2000 and has been leading the way in providing women with the resources they need to thrive in their roles. The Women’s Fund for Development is one of the most important pioneering initiatives implemented by the Arab Women’s Authority in order to contribute to alleviating the suffering of women in poor situations and SII comes as a logical next project to invest in.

“The team at Arab Women Authority is very excited to be joining hands with the SII and Nezha Alaoui’s network of influence in order to bring real change to the employment of women in the country and across the region. We will provide with the necessary support for the common plan to advance women’s employment across fields of expertise” said Dr. Lina Abu Baker, Executive Director.

Women Choice initiative will provide one million employment opportunities for women within five years by empowering female social entrepreneurs across the Arab world and collaborating with key partners will ensure that the program is on track to deliver on its mission.