He is a proud dad to daughters Mia, Leni, Lulu and Tobi.

And Brendan Fevola was every inch the doting father on Tuesday as he cheered on his youngest daughter Tobi as she kicked a football for the first time.

In a video shared to Instagram, Tobi ran around the park before attempting to kick the ball.

'Show me how you kick. Try again and drop it like I taught you,' Brendan can be heard saying in the background.

'Yes, do it again!' he cheered as Tobi kicked the ball into the air.

'My little superstar kicking the footy for the first time. My only kid left for @aflwomens we have a lot of work to do,' Brendan captioned the post.

Brendan shares his daughter Tobi as well as Leni, 16 and Lulu, 13, with his longtime partner Alex.

He is also parent to Alex's eldest daughter Mia.

Brendan adopted Mia as his own daughter when he married Alex in 2005, and they remained close even during times when the couple were separated.

The post comes after Brendan recently revealed how his rough and tumble antics off the footy field laid the groundwork for his current success as a radio star.

Describing most media personalities as 'clean skins who have lived a good life', the Fox FM breakfast host and former AFL great called himself 'a s**t bag' - and said it's something his listeners can relate to.

Brendan, who was sacked by the Brisbane Lions in 2011, made the comments during an interview in February on the Along for the Ride podcast.

'I think the beauty of what I have done in the past has really helped me in radio,' he said.

The hulking former Carlton great has battled alcohol and gambling issues and has frequently made headlines with his outrageous antics.

Fevola, who played 204 games for the Carlton Blues and Brisbane Lions before exiting first class footy for good thirteen years ago, has a history of addiction.

He infamously sold his Coleman Medal to feed his out-of-control gambling habit.

The loveable star said losing a job and getting kicked out of the AFL and doing 'certain things I shouldn’t have done...people can relate to that, they know that I am real.'

The Dancing with the Stars veteran also admitted that he makes the most out of his image as a naughty larrikin and 'idiot'.

But he says, 'all the times I stuffed up or done bad things in my past, geez, it is great for radio,' he said.

'It makes good topics for phoners and I can relate to so many things.'