Survivors of domestic violence in Durham will soon have an easier time getting connected with important services.

From legal help to law enforcement to counseling, there are a lot of resources that survivors need. And right now they are scattered around the city. That changes next week when the Durham Family Justice Center opens its doors.

The Durham Crisis Response Center has been going through a lot of changes in leadership and in staff turnover.

The center now has a new executive director who started in January in Damien Talley.

"I'm hoping my time here will bring some stability," said Talley.

Part of that stability, Talley believes, is opening the Durham Family Justice Center on East Morgan Street.

It will bring representatives from the crisis response center, legal aid and Durham County Sheriff's Office under one roof with plans to add counselors and housing advocates.

"The importance of the Durham Family Justice Center is to create a space where we bring the help to you," said Talley. "This is that one-stop shop for everybody."

The need for these services is growing.

Findings from the NC Coalition Against Domestic Violence shows 28 homicides this year in the state have been domestic in nature. That's significantly outpacing 2022 in which there were 47, and 2021 when there were 67, and 2020 when there were 61.

The National Commission on COVID-19 and Criminal Justice showed that domestic violence incidents in the U. S. increased by 8.1 percent following the imposition of lockdown orders during the 2020 pandemic.

"Unfortunately, we have a great need for this," said Durham County Commissioner Wendy Jacobs.

Jacobs says the county is proud to be a part of this new center.

"The county is providing the building and the city provided the funds to renovate the building for the Durham Crisis Response Center," said Jacobs.

This is not the only improvement for survivors.

The Crisis Response Center also recently finished renovating its shelter. That will open in just a few weeks. During renovations, victims have been placed in hotels. So this will be a more welcoming and stable space for them.

"It is meant to be a place where people can come to get whatever they need, whether it is legal help with a restraining order, medical care or attention, help with housing, counseling, help for their children," Jacobs said.

LeKisha Polite, Nicole Bullock's sister, said Nicole tried to seek help before she was tragically murdered at a Durham hotel room in March. She feels like changes like these could have helped Nicole, a domestic violence victim, and will help victims in the future.

"I think if she would've had resources, it could have been a different situation. Now her boys are growing up without a mom."