There’s just under six weeks to go until New South Wales coach Brad Fittler announces his squad for State of Origin series with a number of contentious positions still up for grabs.

While players like skipper James Tedesco, lock Isaah Yeo and halfback Nathan Cleary are certainties, there are no shortage of candidates should injuries strike.

Meanwhile, Latrell Mitchell and Tom Trbojevic are bound to return to the side after missing out on last year’s series due to injury.

Watch every game of every round of the 2023 NRL Telstra Premiership Season LIVE on Kayo Sports. New to Kayo? Start your free trial now >

There is also a number of spots still undecided including wing, five-eighth and second row with form set to play a big part in the lead up to the series opener.

Read on for the key contenders and verdict for each position.

Analysis: While ever Brad Fittler is coach of the Blues James Tedesco will be his fullback and captain, injuries permitting. The pair have a long history together in Origin and Tedesco has been one of the Blues’ best players in every series he has played during his career. However, should injury strike, NSW have no shortage of options to step up and fill the void. Tom Trbojevic when fit is the next cab off the rank, but he will likely be needed in the centres. So too, Latrell Mitchell whose game at fullback is slightly different to the way the Blues traditionally play, so he will likely be preferred on the edge. Dylan Edwards is arguably the best like for like replacement for Tedesco given he is another energiser bunny who doesn’t stop and is strong in both attack and defence. Clint Gutherson is another option which shows how flush NSW are for fullbacks when he is arguably fifth in line.

REBUILD: How Ciraldo-Gould partnership plans to return Bulldogs to title contenders

Analysis: Provided there’s no injury concerns To’o is almost a certainty for one wing spot, but the other is wide open. Bulldogs star Josh Addo-Carr suffered a high-ankle sprain and is unlikely to be fit. Tupou played all three games last year and hasn’t necessarily done anything wrong in the first six weeks of the season — but he hasn’t done enough to nail done that spot either. His Roosters teammate Suaali’i is the controversial option given he’s heading off to rugby union in 2025 on a $5 million, but it’s expected that won’t impact Fittler’s decision. Suaali’i was included in the extended squad last season to get a taste of the Origin arena and has come leaps and bounds since then — including a successful World Cup campaign with Samoa. Although 19-year-old Suaalii has shifted to the centres this season, he’s still played majority of his footy on the wing. Then there’s Rabbitohs duo Johnston and Graham. One is a try-scoring machine and specialist winger, while the other is arguably the most in form centre — and has been and knocking on the door of an Origin debut for a couple of years. Graham also scored five tries in two games on the wing for the Kangaroos in last year’s World Cup. Crichton played off the bench in game one last year and then started in the centres for the next two games. But he played the back half of 2021 — and won a premiership — on the wing. Garrick’s name isn’t thrown around in the Origin conversations often but he’s proven to be a premier winger.

Get all the latest NRL news, highlights and analysis delivered straight to your inbox with Fox Sports Sportmail. Sign up now!!

Analysis: Incumbents Stephen Crichton and Matt Burton didn’t do a lot wrong last year, but they were not the first options with Latrell Mitchell and Tom Trbojevic ruled out due to injury. After the series loss, the centres is clearly positions the Blues have a lot of depth in and can also strengthen if everyone is fit. Mitchell and Trbojevic strike fear in the hearts of Queenslanders and both were arguably the Blues’ best players the last time they won a series in 2021. Campbell Graham and Kotoni Staggs have been in strong form and along with Burton and Crichton will come into contention if injuries strike, but it is impossible to ignore the case for a Mitchell-Trbojevic reunion if everyone is fit.

Analysis: Nathan Cleary is a lock. So we can move on quickly to five-eighth. The easy option is to go with Luai. He’s been the first choice five-eighth for the last two series’ and it makes sense to pair him with his Panthers halves partner Nathan Cleary. But it’ll be hard for Fittler to ignore Hynes after he won the Dally M last season and started this season with a bang. Hynes may wear the No.7 jersey at club level but his playing style could easily fit the bill of a No.6 too. Should those two not be available, Fittler has the options of Walker and Keary. They didn’t fire when given an opportunity with the Blues but have been in the top echelon of five-eighths over the last five seasons.

Analysis: Jake Trbojevic and Junior Paulo were picked to start in last year’s decider and while they are near certainties to be in the 17 for game one of the 2023 series, it remains to be seen where. Starting Trbojevic at prop gives the Blues flexibility with their substitutions due to his ability to play long minutes, but he could also feature at lock or on the bench depending on injuries and availability. Paulo is a big body and is ideal for the opening exchanges in Origin and he also has a big motor, but he could also be used as an impact player off the bench. Payne Haas is the best prop in the game and arguably the best forward, so he will be in the team somewhere and most likely at starting prop. Reagan Campbell-Gillard is arguably in the best form of the other props behind Haas, but his awkward history with the Blues could count against him. Campbell-Gillard was dropped after last year’s game one loss with Brad Fittler suggesting he didn’t fit the Blues’ style. The Saifiti brothers, Jordan McLean and Dale Finucane will all come into contention at some stage during the series if injuries strike. The leading candidates for the four spots in the front row rotation would be Payne Haas, Reagan Campbell-Gillard, Junior Paulo and Jake Trbojevic. However, Fittler’s history with Daniel Saifiti may see him usurp Campbell-Gillard in the pecking order.

Analysis: Last year the Blues went with two hookers for games two and three in a move designed to emulate the one-two punch of Ben Hunt and Harry Grant for the Maroons. The ploy worked a treat in game two, but the Blues couldn’t get the job done in the decider, which may or may not force a rethink this year. Damien Cook is arguably in the best form of the options in line for the No.9 jersey after rediscovering his running game for Souths. Api Koroisau is still one of the best hookers in the game when he is at his best, but the struggles of his new club side the Tigers could come back to bite him come selection time. While the Rabbitohs are winning, Cook, who has rarely let the Blues down in his Origin career would be well in contention to reclaim his starting spot for game one. But if the Blues persist with both Cook and Koroisau, it will be up to Brad Fittler’s game plan to decide who is the better starting option. Cowboys hooker Reece Robson is a handy back-up if injuries strike, but like Koroisau his club’s form is not giving him the best chance to shine at this stage. The Blues could also opt for a player like Nicho Hynes on the bench in the utility role, which could see Koroisau or Cook miss out, but at this stage Fittler is likely to keep faith with his twin hooker rotation from last year.

Analysis: Incumbent second-rowers Cameron Murray and Liam Martin are wonderful players, but if there is a knock on them as a starting pair it is their lack of size and the fact they play a very similar game. Of the players in contention that could offer something different to the Blues, Manly star Haumole Olaka’atu and Souths counterpart Keaon Koloamatangi were leading the pack. Koloamatangi’s injury will likely rule him out of game one, but he could still play a part later in the series if required. Olakau’atu has been a standout so far this season and is a strong chance to be included in the starting back row or on the bench. Eels star Shaun Lane has returned from injury and is another big body with a huge motor that would be tailor-made for Origin. Raiders back-rower Hudson Young is a smoky because he offers a point of difference with his speed and skill-set. At this stage Murray and Olaka’atu are likely to start, with Martin coming off the bench, provided he can recover from his hamstring injury in time. If Martin is ruled out, Lane and Young could come right into calculations depending on the other players in the forwards rotation.

Analysis: If Panthers skipper Isaah Yeo is fit he will be a lock for the No.13 jersey given his combination with halfback Nathan Cleary and the other Penrith players Brad Fittler selects. Cameron Murray will be in the 17 somewhere and is a handy back-up if injury strikes at lock throughout the series. Murray could also spend time at his best position late in each half to take advantage of his strong work in the middle. There is a theory his attacking spark is wasted by the defence required playing on the edge, which could mean he is used off the bench at lock to give Yeo a spell. Ryan Matterson is a handy back-up option if injuries strike given he has spent time there for the Eels, but like Campbell-Gillard he too was made a scapegoat for last year’s game one loss, so it remains to be seen if he is still on the outer.