In the Volgograd region, a microfinance organization was fined for psychological pressure on the debtor, in Primorye more than a thousand cheburashkas were seized, and in Karelia, found guilty of murdering two girls, demanded a compensation of the remand center for living conditions. Russian media has compiled a summary of important and high-profile regional events.

In Izhevsk, a local resident was fined 30,000 rubles for discrediting the Russian armed forces. The man took to the streets with a poster, which featured slogans and flags of Russia and Ukraine, reports udm-info.ru.

A 57-year-old employee of one of the clinics in Rostov-on-Don became a defendant in a criminal case after he tore the Russian flag from the building of a medical institution while intoxicated and tried to enter it set fire, the information portal reports. rostovgazeta.ru. The man faces a sentence of up to one year in prison for having desecrated the national flag.

The Volgograd microfinance organization was fined 50,000 rubles for psychological pressure on the debtor. Correspondents say newsvolgograda.ruthe company sent text messages to the citizen threatening to come to his home, threatening law enforcement and the court.

The Investigative Committee of the Nizhny Novgorod region opened a criminal investigation against a 17-year-old driver responsible for a fatal accident in the village of Buturlino. A 25-year-old passenger died in the accident and a 40-year-old pedestrian was hospitalized with serious injuries. newsnn.ru. The teenager was driving while intoxicated.

Sverdlovsk region children’s rights commissioner Igor Morokov said he did not uncover any violations at a special school in Yekaterinburg, whose pupil had complained of abuse. Ombudsman says nothing ‘terrible’ happened at educational institution, reports tagilcity.ru.

The family of the mobilized soldier from Orenburg who died in the shooting filed a lawsuit against the Ministry of Defense for payments, reports 56orb.ru. Relatives of the deceased are asking the department for a lump sum payment in the amount of 1,666,666 rubles 67 kopecks, as well as compensation for moral damage in the amount of 3 million rubles to each family member.

A resident of Petrozavodsk, convicted of murdering two girls, applied for compensation from the remand center. According karelinform.ruthe man complained about the living conditions, saying there was no hot water in the cell, and washing the floors with cold water was “uncomfortable” for him.

In the Ob near Novosibirsk, a 15-year-old boy was badly burned after a ride with fire, reports atas.info.  The victim said he was assaulted by a stranger and threw a lit paper in his face. However, it later turned out that the boy had been hospitalized after he tried to surprise his friends with a fire trick: he poured fuel into his mouth and set it on fire with a match.

In Krasnoyarsk, a criminal case has been opened against a man who relieved himself at the Victory Memorial and burned flowers in the Eternal Flame, reports prmira.ru.

In Primorye, 1,200 Cheburashkas were confiscated from a Chinese tourist. Correspondents zr.media they write that the man was carrying seven bags, the total weight of which reached 70 kilograms.

Read the Latest Ukraine War News on The Eastern Herald.