Nick Cannon doesn’t care what you think about his (very, very, very) large brood — he’s doing what he wants to do!

The 42-year-old comedian and television host has been making headlines for years now amid his move to father a LOT of children with a LOT of different women. He’s had 12 kids in total so far with a half-dozen baby mommas.

And on Friday, that fatherhood focus came back up in the news after Nick forgot one of his kids’ names while chatting about dad duties with Howard Stern!! The controversy immediately swirled, fans (and baby momma LaNisha Cole) shared their thoughts, and Nick was forced to do some damage control.

Related: Nick Cannon Regrets Not Having A Baby With THIS Famous Ex!

That PR push came on Saturday morning, when People published a new interview with the San Diego native. Cannon was using the outlet’s interview to hype up his new morning show The Daily Cannon, which is set to kick off later this month on Amp. But naturally, the mag asked about Nick’s family planning. And the host delivered!

First, the Wild’N Out star said this about his commitment to procreation and having a large family:

“I believe that’s what we’re put on this planet here to do, is to guide and usher in your offspring. So fatherhood is my number one and first priority when I open my eyes, when I get up every morning. Career and work and all of that, take second.”

Of course, Nick has dragged himself into quite a bit of daddy drama in recent months. Hopefully he really means this talk about career and work taking a backseat to fatherhood!!

He alluded to some of the online criticism he’s been receiving from fans and followers, too. For one, the Nick Cannon Show alum explained:

“[There are] a lot of narratives out there about me and my life that I’m actually not even a part of. … I understand that my lifestyle isn’t typical to society and can be viewed as unorthodox in some ways. But my goal in life is just to love my kids and be there for my kids and provide for them.”

The popular television host went on to add that his main goal is to “love with abundance,” and he doesn’t care much for whether others don’t understand what he’s trying to do with his life:

“Like I always say, I just love with abundance. Some people just won’t subscribe or understand because they’re not supposed to. It’s the life that I’ve been given and I choose to live this way and love my family, love my kids.”

Hey, at least he’s content to not be liked by strangers. He has received no shortage of criticism for his parenthood choices, and something tells us those comments are only going to keep coming.

Related: Nick Announces He’s ‘Expecting’ Again, But It’s Not What You Think…

While the Daily Cannon gets off the ground, Nick remains focused on figuring out a realistic schedule to spend quality time with all of his children while still moving his career ahead. As Perezcious readers will recall, he shares 11-year-old twins Monroe and Moroccan with ex-wife Mariah Carey. He also shares two sons — Golden Sagon, 6, and Rise Messiah, 6 months — along with a daughter — Powerful Queen, 2 — with Brittany Bell.

Plus, he has 21-month old twins Zion Mixolydian and Zillion Heir and 4-month old daughter Beautiful Zeppelin with Abby De La Rosa. And he has eight-month-old son Legendary Love with Bre Tiesi, five-month-old daughter Onyx Ice with the aforementioned LaNisha Cole, and three-month old-daughter Halo Marie with Alyssa Scott. Cannon and Scott tragically lost son Zen at just five months old in December 2021 due to brain cancer, as well.

As for Nick’s future showbiz plans, the Daily Cannon debuts in ten days, and the star is looking forward to using the show to “control my narrative.” That means Nick is going to tell it like it is about family life, and parenting, and more.

He explained that to the mag:

“Now you get to hear it from the horse’s mouth every day. It’s really that opportunity to give the people a glimpse into my world, and for me to share my world with everybody else.”