Yemen Aid to Open Two Oxygen Plants in Yemen in Partnership with Direct Relief

Medical oxygen in health facilities in Yemen will support Covid-19 therapies and respiratory support for patients in the country,

Yemen Aid, a Yemeni-American humanitarian organization that responds to the crisis in Yemen, announced that they had received a grant from Direct Relief to support Yemen's strained limited oxygen supply by building two oxygen plants in two needed provinces in Yemen.

This grant comes at a crucial period since the Covid-19 pandemic, where Yemen continues to face widespread illness at the community level. Yemen, a country populated by 29 million people, has been crippled by a collapsed health sector and weak medical supply, which includes oxygen support. "Yemenis are fighting many fights during this conflict - they shouldn't have to worry if a clinic or a hospital has oxygen to support their needs during life and death situations or for basic related care," said Yemen Aid's CEO Summer Nasser. "This agreement will be life-changing for hundreds and thousands of adults and children seeking medical attention."

The two planned oxygen plants will produce 100 extra-large cylinders per day and are to be located on Azzan General Public Hospital in Shabwah and Mareb General Public Hospital in the province of Mareb. Both public hospitals serve a combined estimate of 220,000 patients per year. Yemen's Minister of Public Health and Population, Dr. Qasem Buhaibeh said "Direct Relief, through Yemen Aid, has been a strong ally of support in the health sector to Yemen, especially in regard to rapid response to the COVID-19 pandemic. At a time where oxygen supply is scarce and limited, this new agreement will lessen the burden of families and ensure quality medical support to patients that are in need of oxygen support for years to come."

"It's a privilege for Direct Relief to support the important work of Yemen Aid and the Ministry of Public Health and Population in assisting the people of Yemen," said Thomas Tighe, President & CEO of Direct Relief. "Among the many chronic challenges that the Covid-19 pandemic brought into sharp focus globally was the glaring lack of sufficient medical oxygen, which is always essential for critical care but obviously so when the pandemic is a respiratory disease. As the pandemic subsides, this is an important step to strengthen health services for people in Yemen in still challenging times."

Yemen Aid coordinated with the Ministry of Public Health and Population to assist in identifying the hospital locations that will benefit from the oxygen plants through a needs-assessment approach. The two oxygen plants are expected to be completed by May 2023.