ORLANDO, FLORIDA: Janet Jackson who hit the road after four years with her long-awaited Together Again tour got the proceedings in order with her Friday, April 14 performance. She enthralled fans at the Hard Rock Live in Hollywood, Florida, outside of her Fort Lauderdale. Interestingly, the pop star has the list of songs she would be performing throughout this season, it is a massive, 40-song setlist.

The list will have 'All For You,' 'That's the Way Love Goes' and how can she miss out on, 'Together Again.' On her first show of the tour, Jackson opened with a live debut of ‘Damita Jo’ from her 2004 album of the same name, followed by the DJ Premier remix of ‘Together Again, and ‘Got Til It’s Gone,’ per USA Today. She walked onto the stage wearing a purple cloak and took over the center stage to huge applause after a short clip was played. The video focused on some of the most memorable moments from her successful long career.

Janet Jackson's Together Again world tour set to have 'MeToo checks' inspired by Beyonce's strict rules

Janet Jackson shares RARE photo with 'beautiful niece' Paris putting rumors of feud to rest

Janet first dropped the tour dates back in December 2022 as she is set for a 33-date trip traveling all over North America. The 56-year-old will be checking Austin, Toronto New York, Los Angeles, and other cities. She will be joined by Ludacris, too, during her tour as well. Other than music, Janet Jackson is super busy and loving her new role as a mother. Janet told Essence last year, "Even though it's something that I absolutely love, it still is my work, my job.”

"There will be music at some point. Exactly when? I can't say just yet, but there will be. I love it too much not to do it. This is all I know. There's so much that I want to do — but my No. 1 job is being a mama," she said. The singer shares son Eissa, 6, with ex-husband Wissam Al Mana. Janet Jackson’s last tour was in the fall of 2019, while she celebrated the 30th anniversary of her Rhythm Nation 1814’s success, reports People.