CLARE GAA star Podge Collins got married to partner Ellen Roche over the weekend in a beautiful ceremony in their native county.

The 2013 All-Ireland winner and Ellen beamed outside the 4 star Armada Hotel in Spanish Point.

His brothers Seán and David were just two of a very sporty guestlist as Irish rugby star Eimear Considine was also in attendance alongside her boyfriend and another former Banner footballer in Dean Ryan.

Per RSVP Live, Podge and Ellen headed down to The Europe Hotel near Killarney after their big day to enjoy a mini-moon together.

Podge is of course a dual star and has been focusing on playing for the county's footballers under his father Colm for the past few seasons.

They continue to be one of the most consistent and impressive teams around relative to their playing pool.

While their seven-year stint in Division Two finally came to an end on the last day of the League campaign, they responded brilliantly in their opening Munster Championship outing by dumping Cork out.

Podge scored 0-1 in the 0-14 to 0-13 win which Sean Cavanagh described on The Sunday Game as 'a one-point hammering' such was their superiority on the day.

It should be noted too that their relegation from Division Two only came after four one-point defeats so they could easily have stayed up once again.

Banner chief Colm — the longest-serving inter-county manager in either code — was jubilant after last week's final whistle.

He said: “It’s great to come out the right side of a tight game like that for a change.

“It was a fantastic effort across the pitch — they gave every last drop they had and it would have been an awful travesty if we didn’t come out with a result for a change.

“We have an opportunity in a Munster semi-final. If we can win, we’re back into the Sam Maguire and that’s the important thing.”

Cork boss John Cleary could not complain about the result.

He said: “Clare took it and we didn’t — it’s as simple as that.

"When the game was there for the taking, Clare went and took it and we didn’t. They upped their game.

“We might have nicked it in the end but Clare were probably the better team overall. It’s back to the drawing board for us.”

And while Cork go back to basics, Clare march on to a last-four battle with Limerick.