Apple has confirmed its in-person World Wide Developer Conference (WWDC) event will take place in June this year. Multiple rumors and reports have suggested the hardware, software, and services the iPhone maker may announce at the WWDC23 event.

At the WWDC 2023 event, Apple is expected to announce its long-awaited Mixed-Reality headset, rumored to be called the Reality Pro. Let's look at the other products Apple Inc. may announce at the eagerly-awaited event.

The most anticipated Apple product that may be announced at this year's WWDC could be the Mixed Reality headset, rumored to be called the Reality Pro, claimed Bloomberg's Mark Gurman.

If true, the Apple Reality Pro (Apple hasn't revealed or confirmed the name yet) would undoubtedly be the center of attention or the highlight of the Apple WWDC 2023. The headset has been the subject of many rumors but Apple has managed to keep the design and specifications of the Reality Pro under wraps.

Apple is also tipped to be developing a new OS for the Apple Reality Pro. Called the xrOS, the operating system for the Mixed Reality headset would combine Augmented Reality (AR) and Virtual Reality (VR), and more importantly, offer better support for the apps and services available on the Apple App Store.

Alongside the Mixed Reality headset, Apple is expected to launch the latest MacBooks, which should include the 15-inch and 13-inch MacBook Air, an entry-level 13-inch MacBook Pro, and much more. Multiple reports, however, suggest that Apple might offer these laptops with last year's M2 chips instead of the latest M3 chips.

According to the Power On newsletter, Apple isn't going to offer some major software services or OS updates at the WWDC 2023. However, Apple loyalists can expect multiple incremental improvements to security.

Apple is expected to introduce iOS 17, macOS 14, iPad OS 17, watchOS 10, and tvOS 17. One of the most notable and long-awaited features would be "sideloading". The feature has been a staple for Android smartphone users but Apple iPhone users may be allowed to sideload apps, which is a process in which installer files obtained from third-party websites are accepted by iPhone's iOS.