If an artist not of the caliber of 5-time Grammy winner, Country Music Hall of Famer and Grand Ole Opry member Marty Stuart asserted that an event lineup was, top-to-bottom, of a peerless level of extraordinary talent, it might be unbelievable.

However, for 20 years, Stuart has excellently hand-curated the 'Late Night Jam.'

He refers to it as a 'one-of-a-kind pirate ship show' that has become the unofficial kickoff to the Country Music Association’s yearly four-day festival takeover of Lower Broadway.

On June 7, Stuart will host the following acts for an event presented by his Congress of Country Music.

himself and His Fabulous Superlatives band Joe Walsh John Oates The Del McCoury Band

Americana Music Association 2022 Emerging Artist of the Year Sierra Ferrell Grand Ole Opry favorites and 2021 CMT Next Women of Country artists Chapel Hart his wife, Connie Smith newly-minted Grand Ole Opry member Gary Mule Deer Big Loud-signed Texas country artist Jake Worthington The Grand Ole Opry Square Dancers

Tickets for the event will be available on Friday.

'It’s hard to believe this is the 20th Late Night Jam,' Stuart states via a press release. 'This year is no different than all the rest. The Ryman will be filled with Country Music Hall of Famers, Rock and Roll Hall of Famers, Musician’s Hall of Famers, Songwriter Hall of Famers, Bluegrass Hall of Famers, up and comers, and lots of laughter.'

Stuart is currently in the midst of a nationwide headlining tour that resumes on April 27 in Tucson, AZ, before performing at Stagecoach Festival on April 29 and hitting the road with Chris Stapleton this summer. His first studio release in six years, 'Altitude,' will also be three weeks old as of the Late Night Jam. Out on May 19, the collection was primarily inspired by Stuart’s 2018 tour supporting Byrds co-founders Roger McGuinn and Chris Hillman, who reunited for the 50th anniversary of their 'Sweetheart Of The Rodeo' album.

For more information on all things Marty Stuart, visit https://martystuart.net.