Eid Ul Fitr is at the doorstep. After a month of fasting he, who has abstained from eating and drinking and avoiding all what Allah has ordered to avoid and abandon, will find himself becoming more faithful. The end of the holy month declares the advent of Eid Ul Fitr, which is the gift and reward of Allah to his worshippers who have sincerely obeyed the orders of their Creator and distance themselves from sins. This will help them gain the consent of Allah and make Him forgive their sins and accept them as true believers.

Ramadan is a test for Muslims as they bear hunger, thirst and hardship. True believers are those who also pray all night. All the hard work and efforts they made during Ramadan will culminate in Eid.

Eid Ul Fitr is the day of thanksgiving and joy. It marks the end of the month of fasting, and it is when we feel happy and give thanks to Allah that He enabled us to obey His commands. We all fasted during the month of Ramadan, and by the end of the month, we realize that Allah’s commands are good for us; they aim at our well-being. Allah does not want to put any burden on us; He gave us the rules of fasting for our own benefit. Fasting has many benefits for individuals and for communities.

It has spiritual, moral, and physical benefits. Eid Ul-Fitr (Eid Al-Fitr) has a deep significance. Its spirit is marked by distinguished values and virtues:

Thanksgiving and expressing gratitude to Allah Experiencing joy and rejoice Receiving the great reward of obeying Allah Maintaining ties of kinship Taking care of the poor and the needy Thanksgiving and Expressing Gratitude `Eid Al-Fitr is a day that marks the successful completion of the sacred month of Ramadan. It is a festival that signifies the completion of an act of duty and devotion. It teaches us that real happiness results from performing one’s duty and making sacrifices for a noble objective. We should thank Almighty Allah, for He guided us to fasting in Ramadan, to doing good deeds, and to reciting the Qur’an. We should thank Him, for He is the One Who gave us the money we paid for zakat al-fitr and other charities. Allah says in the Qur’an, [And (He desires) that you should complete the prescribed period and that you should glorify Allah for having guided you and that you may give thanks] – Al-Baqarah 2:185.

Eid is our joy; it is our feast. The month of Ramadan is a test from Almighty Allah. At the end of the month, we experience a great sense of achievement and closeness to Allah. It is the joy of spiritual fulfillment. The day of Eid Al-Fitr is time for celebration. On that day, we should not indulge in insulting or abusing others, as this may detract from the achievements of the month of Ramadan. Eid Al-Fitr is a day of decent happiness and joy. Almighty Allah says, (Say, “In the bounty of Allah and in His mercy — therein let them rejoice. It is better than what they hoard) – Yunus 10:58.

Abu Hurairah reported that Prophet Muhammad (peace and blessings be upon him) said, “Those who fast will have two times at which they will feel happy: When they break their fast, they feel happy for breaking the fast, and when they meet their Lord, they will be happy because of their fast” – Al-Bukhari and Muslim.

The Day of Eid Al-Fitr is a blessed day for those who have observed their duty toward Allah during their fast in Ramadan. In heavens, Eid Al-Fitr is called the day of reward. It is reported in a Prophetic hadith that, on the day of Eid Al-Fitr, the angels stand on both sides of the roads and proclaim, “O believers, walk toward your Lord, Who is the Most Generous. He favors you with goodness and gives you great reward. He commanded you to pray during the night and fast during the day. Now that you have obeyed Him, come and receive your rewards” – At-Tabarani.

As the believers finish the Eid Prayer, the angels say, “Allah has forgiven you. Return to your homes with the best of good and glad tidings. This is the day of reward. This day is called the day of reward in heaven as well” – At-Tabarani.

Alhamdulillah, we have been blessed by Allah and granted the precious opportunity of observing the holy month of Ramadan. On this auspicious and divine even of Eid Ul Fitr, on behalf of the Editorial Board of BLiTZ, we would like to convey warmest Eid greetings to our Muslim brothers and sister throughout the world. May Allah bless us all.