New Japan Pro Wrestling, at times, are known for their surprises and moments. New Japan has taken their American brand, NJPW Strong, on a tour. NJPW Strong was created during The Covid Pandemic 2020 to have wrestlers continue to work in America’s dark time. It was the beacon of light and was successful. However, back in January of 2023 they announced that NJPW Strong will no longer be a weekly show and instead decided to have the name be on a touring scheduled.

Last night, April 15, 2023, NJPW Strong held Captial Collision in Washington DC. Great matches and even great surprises and moments.

Our main event featured a triple threat tag team match for the NJPW Strong Tag Team Championships. These titles were introduced to the wrestling world and NJPW Strong on June 8, 2022. The first ever crowned tag team champions for NJPW Strong was Kyle Fletcher and Mark Davis, the team known as Aussie Open and part of The United Empire.

NJPW Strong then held Rumble on 44th Street on October 29, 2022. Aussie Open defended their Strong Tag Titles that night. In an unforeseen situation, Aussie Open lost the tag team titles to Alex Shelly and Chris Sabin of Motor City Machine Guns. Motor City Machine Guns then showcased the NJPW Strong titles on Impact Wrestling.

Aussie Open might have suffered that loss, but they both went onto Japan and proved their worth during the recent New Japan Cup tour to finally face the NJPW Heavyweight Champions Yoshi-Hashi and Goto of Bishamon. At Sakura Genesis, NJPW’s annual PPV show on April 8, 2023, we got new tag team champions. Aussie Open showcased those championships with pride.

So, how did we get to the triple threat of:

Motor City Machine Guns vs Aussie Open vs Okada and Tanahashi known as Dream Team?

Alex Shelley and Chris Sabin wanted competition and had a chat with Tanahashi during his backstage promo thoughts on his match with Speedball Mike Bailey. Then Aussie Open entered the chat. And it was settled with the promise of Aussie Open taking those tag team titles.

The triple threat tag team match was amazing. Crazy highflying, fast, hard-hitting action, and even Kyle Fletcher landing waist first on the guardrail from doing a moonsault.

He competed still and through the pain managed to finish the match with Mark Davis. They got the victory pin last night and became our new NJPW Strong Tag Team Champions. This will be their second title reign.

Tonight, is NJPW Strong Collision in Philadelphia at the 2300 Arena. The tag match needed to be changed due to NJPW Global revealing that Hiroshi Tanahashi suffered an injury last night in DC.