Action star and former California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger was seen filling in a neighborhood pothole after waiting several weeks for the problem to be addressed with no luck.

In a minute-long video posted to his Twitter page, Schwarzenegger, 75, works with another man to fill in the large pothole that he said has been plaguing his neighborhood for weeks.

The eleven atmospheric rivers that have hit California this year have mitigated drought that has plagued the state for years, but have also opened up potholes and cracks on local streets and freeways.

Road crews have struggled to keep pace with the demand for repairs following the exceptionally stormy season.

The case is apparently no different in the wealthy enclave of Bel Air, where Schwarzenegger lives in a nearly 15,000 square foot palatial home.

In the video posted Tuesday, which has amassed 4.5million views, Schwarzenegger pours a bag of Quikrete into the pothole and begins evening our the spread with a shovel.

A woman in a white car comes driving up to thank the team of worker before realizing who is doing the heavy lifting.

'Oh, Arnold!' she exclaimed, when she saw who was responsible for the neighborly act.

'You're welcome,' he said. 'You have to do it yourself. This is crazy. For three weeks I've been waiting for this hole to be closed.'

The Terminator actor captioned the vide: 'Today, after the whole neighborhood has been upset about this giant pothole that's been screwing up cars and bicycles for weeks, I went out with my team and fixed it.

'I always say, let's not complain, let's do something about it. Here you go.'

Daniel Ketchell, a spokesperson for Schwarzenegger, said Brentwood residents made repeated requests for repairs since winter storms opened up potholes and cracks on local roads.

Mayor Karen Bass last week announced a plan to address what she called an unprecedented number of damaged streets across the city. Since Dec. 30, Los Angeles has received 19,692 service requests for repairs, and as of April 6, crews had filled at least 17,549 potholes, officials said.

The Terminator actor sported brown work boots, a brown bomber jacket, an all black athleisure look, dark sunglasses, and a white beard to do the neighborhood work.

Schwarzenegger previously served as Governor of California from 2003 to 2011.

According to ABC7, a Los Angeles Department of Public Works official said that the hole Schwarzenegger filled is not really a pothole, but rather a service trench that needs to be taken care of the by the Southern California Gas Company.

Furthermore, the utility company said that because the road is concrete, and not asphalt, Schwarzenegger's handy work may only be a temporary fix.

Some Twitter users in the comments section seemed to agree with that assessment.

Aaron Cooper wrote: 'Cool. But this is all wrong. In order to make pre-packaged asphalt work properly, the area must be tack-coated, then the asphalt must be heated to activate the oil and emulsion in order for the patch to adhere to the area as well as itself.

'I do asphalt work for a living,' he said.

NBC News Los Angeles reported that an LA city official said Schwarzenegger had filled up a service trench 'that related to active, permitted work being performed at the location by SoCal Gas, who expects work to be completed by the end of the May.'