At 181st Street and Collins Avenue in the chic town of Sunny Isles Beach, an opulent and elegant new development is preparing to rise. Developed by Fortune International and Chateau Group and managed by St Regis Hotels & Resorts, the St Regis Sunny Isles will bring a chic, elevated lifestyle with stunning unobstructed ocean, city and Intracoastal views. Since releasing the plans and sales, the developers have commitments on $750 million in residences for the new tower, which is weeks away from groundbreaking.

“South Florida luxury real estate remains at the top of everyone’s wish list. The St. Regis Residences, Sunny Isles Beach was conceived and developed to not only accommodate this desire, but to create an unparalleled lifestyle in one of the most rare oceanfront addresses in Florida,” said Edgardo Defortuna, President and CEO of Fortune International Group. “We are thrilled with the sales success we have seen to date, as the location, design, amenities, and lifestyle have resonated immensely with our buyers.”

The twin 62-story towers are reminiscent of the Earth’s elliptical path, with their shapes bringing a sense of harmony in the natural world. Designed by Arquitectonica, the craftmanship and attention to detail are readily evident with floor-to-ceiling windows throughout and exquisite materials and finishes. The residences are laid out in 2 to 5-bedroom designs that are each between 2,000 to 5,600 square feet. The Sky Villas and Penthouses range from 6,600 to over 10,000 square feet.

Inside the super-luxury towers, residents will enjoy a beach club, wellness center, al fresco dining near the pool, a cognac room, billiards, bar and lounge, wine vault, wellness center and of course, a fully-serviced beach club. The amenity space is spread out over 70,000 square feet throughout the project, allowing for a true resort feel in the comfort of your own home.

“The St. Regis brand is rooted in superior service and The St. Regis Residences, Sunny Isles Beach will execute this lifestyle effortlessly, with every detail carefully considered,” said Manuel Grosskopf, CEO of Château Group. “With infinite 360-degree views, this extraordinary oceanfront site is stunning from entrance to pinnacle. With a dramatic two-story lobby entrance to extensive amenities including a jaw-dropping infinity pool, the magic of the St. Regis brand is evident throughout the property. The sales gallery was designed to perfectly capture the views and atmosphere of the future residences.”

Although the sand has not yet begun to move, the St Regis Sunny Isles has already earned a spot on Luxury Travel Magazine’s list of 2023’s most anticipated new developments in South Florida. The developers have recently received an agreement with the local government for their utilities hookup, demonstrating that groundbreaking is imminent. A general contractor has not yet been named, but the development team is very close to this announcement leading up to the official groundbreaking in just a few short weeks.

Purchase opportunities are available in both of the new towers, with prices starting in the $3 million range.

If you are interested in a private presentation of the project, with specific pricing, please contact Michael Light, Broker and Executive Director of Luxury Sales at Douglas Elliman. You may reach Michael directly at (786) 566-1700 or via email at michael@miamiluxuryhomes.com.