Here in Toronto, the weather feels like summer. But in Gale Crater it's coming towards the end of Autumn. At this time of year, we enter Aphelion Cloud Belt season, when we see regular formation of water-ice clouds. While not as striking as the twilight clouds earlier in the year, these clouds form every Mars year at around the same time and last for many months, making this the perfect opportunity to learn about martian clouds.

To accomplish that, the ENV team supplements our year-round cloud observations, the zenith and suprahorizon movies (which point directly overhead, and near the horizon), and two seasonal observations, the Phase Function Sky Survey and the Cloud Altitude Observation. These can tell us about how the clouds themselves and the water-ice crystals within them behave, and all four of these observations are in this weekend's plan.

It's not just about the clouds though this weekend. We're still climbing through the canyon, so the plan starts out with contact science followed by another short drive, and then some remote science.

More specifically, we start with a Mastcam mosaic of the inverted channel and a ChemCam LIBS observation of 'Kourou,' a nearby dark float rock. After this, MAHLI is getting up close with 'Terre Firme', and then we'll brush the dust off of 'Lorenco' and get APXS and MAHLI contact science on it. After a nap, we'll wake up for some night time imaging of the CheMin inlet with MAHLI.

The next sol, Mastcam will have a field day imaging 'Lorenco,' 'Kourou,' 'Owenteik,' 'Teotonio,' 'Rizere de Mana' and a nearby vein network. Then ChemCam will take a LIBS observation of 'Rizere de Mana' and a mosaic of the buttes 'Alto Alegre.' We'll then make our brief drive uphill.

The next sol of the plan has a small untargeted science block, where ENV will look for dust devils and characterise the amount of dust between us and the distant crater rim and ChemCam AEGIS will autonomously select a target. After that, we'll go back to sleep but that's not it for the weekend - we wake up early the next morning for our weekly morning ENV activities to finish up the plan.

Related Links

Curiosity Mars Science Laboratory

Mars News and Information at MarsDaily.com

Lunar Dreams and more

Years in the making, a major software update that has been installed on NASA's Curiosity rover will enable the Mars robot to drive faster and reduce wear and tear on its wheels. Those are just two of about 180 changes implemented during the update, which required the team to put Curiosity's science and imaging operations on hold between April 3 and April 7.

"The flight software is essential to our mission, so this is a big deal for our team," said Curiosity Project Manager Kathya Zamora-Garcia of  ...  read more

Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.

NASA's first flight with crew critical to long-term return to the moon

First woman, Black astronaut, Canadian to make 2024 flight around Moon

NASA to reveal crew for 2024 flight around the Moon

U. S. Navy pilot to become first person of color to go to the moon

China, France join hands in space

Shenzhou XV mission crew members set China record

Spacewalks become 'routine' after 12th mission

Rocket that will carry Tianzhou ship to space arrives at launch center

New agreement will help researchers study metal worlds of M-type asteroids

Lucy snaps its first views of Trojan Asteroid targets

UCF will help researchers study metal asteroids for resources, clues to formation

Psyche updated plan puts mission on track for October launch

Icy Moonquakes: Surface Shaking Could Trigger Landslides

Europe's Jupiter probe launched

Europe's JUICE mission blasts off towards Jupiter's icy moons

Spotlight on Ganymede, Juice's primary target

Hubble finds Saturn's rings heating its atmosphere

How a Saturn moon ejects particles from oceans beneath its surface

Hubble captures the start of a new spoke season at Saturn

SwRI investigations reveal more evidence that Mimas is a stealth ocean world

China launches new meteorological satellite

Metaspectral to bring SkyFi satellite imagery to its Fusion Platform

China's latest EO satellite offers high-precision rainfall monitoring

L3Harris to build geostationary weather satellite sensors for Japan

Space seeds take root in Inner Mongolia

Calnetix Technologies' high-speed blower system installed on ISS

NASA Boosts Open Science through Innovative Training

Rocket Lab launches new constellation-class star tracker

International team discover new exoplanet partly using direct imaging

Webb peeks into the birthplaces of exoplanets

HD 169142 b, the third protoplanet confirmed to date

Do Earth-like exoplanets have magnetic fields

The content herein, unless otherwise known to be public domain, are Copyright 1995-2023 -  Space Media Network . All websites are published in Australia and are solely subject to Australian law and governed by Fair Use principals for news reporting and research purposes. AFP, UPI and IANS news wire stories are copyright Agence France-Presse, United Press International and Indo-Asia News Service. ESA news reports are copyright European Space Agency. All NASA sourced material is public domain. Additional copyrights may apply in whole or part to other bona fide parties. All articles labeled "by Staff Writers" include reports supplied to Space Media Network by industry news wires, PR agencies, corporate press officers and the like. Such articles are individually curated and edited by Space Media Network staff on the basis of the report's information value to our industry and professional readership. Advertising does not imply endorsement, agreement or approval of any opinions, statements or information provided by Space Media Network on any Web page published or hosted by Space Media Network.  Our advertisers use various cookies and the like to deliver the best ad banner available at one time. All network advertising suppliers have GDPR policies (Legitimate Interest) that conform with EU regulations for data collection. By using our websites you consent to cookie based advertising. If you do not agree with this then you must stop using the websites from May 25, 2018.  Privacy Statement . Additional information can be found here at  About Us .