MANILA, Philippines — Barraged with complaints from kin of the victims of political killings in Negros Oriental, senators asked the Department of Justice (DOJ) on Tuesday to create a special committee tasked to handle information on these cases in the province.

It was Sen. Francis Tolentino who first raised the need to compile all the cases of politically-motivated deaths in the province, considering “all the underlying conditions.”

“Kapag nabuo natin iyong ganoong story (If we’re able to piece together the stories), I think we can aspire to achieve justice,” he said at the Senate public order and dangerous drugs committee hearing on the brazen murder of Negros Oriental Gov. Roel Degamo and other political killings in the country.

DOJ Usec. Jesse Andres said a summary of the case titles, sans the details of the incident, has been forwarded to the upper chamber.

But Tolentino noted that the panel would need more than a mere list of the cases.

“We will also get the case folders and probably, ask for a summary and status report of the individual cases,” Andres assured the senator.

Tolentino later asked if it was possible to form a team of appointed Manila-based prosecutors to handle the 20 cases filed concerning political deaths in Negros Oriental.

“While the Undersecretary of Justice has given his statement that motu proprio [investigation] can be done, I move that a special task force Negros Oriental task force be created, upon the request of the committee, specifically to handle all cases brought before this committee,” he said.

This, according to Tolentino, includes the assassination of Degamo and other political killings prior.

Tolentino’s motion was seconded by Sen. Robin Padilla and then approved by the panel with no objections.

“On behalf of the DOJ, we take note of the committee’s resolution. Rest assured, we will expeditiously act, and I think your request is very much well taken. As head of the National Prosecution Service, we will immediately implement this committee’s request,” Andres said.

The Philippine National Police had earlier revealed to senators that were 33 slain elected government officials in Negros Oriental from 2016 to March 2023, including Degamo.

At least 63 suspects in 20 cases were identified, it noted.

IN NUMBERS: Attacks on elected officials in Negros Oriental since 2016

Andres also vowed to address the alleged problem with the prosecutors in the province, who are seemingly fearful of pushing through with the investigation into the cases, based on the testimonies of the resource persons in the hearing.

“If there is a need even to transfer the preliminary investigation cases to the DOJ proper, we will cause the transfer of the cases,” he added.

The DOJ official likewise vowed to assist and take in people under their Witness Protection Program should it be necessary.

Impunity in full display: Attacks on LGU execs escalate in PH