Merit Circle DAO, a growing global digital community focused on developing futuristic gaming infrastructure, announced the launch of Beam, a gaming subnet built on the Avalanche (AVAX)  blockchain. With a sole focus on revolutionizing the gaming industry, Merit Circle DAO has announced that Web3 developers seeking to build next-generation gaming protocols can now tap into the Beam network.

The Merit Circle DAO developed the Beam subnet on the Avalanche blockchain with the sole purpose of catering to gamers and game developers. Notably, the $MC token is expected to be used for gas fees and network validation on the Beam subnet. As a result, the $MC holders will benefit from increased token burns from the Beam network.

Beam will empower the Merit Circle DAO and $MC like never before.

⫸ $MC will be the gas token for Beam

⫸ $MC will be required to validate the network

Beam creates a continuous loop of burns and drives value to $MC and the Merit Circle DAO.https://t.co/lnnPRbbsKz

Already, the Beam network enjoys a vast global community with more than 60 partnered games, dozens of contributors, developers, tools and investors. As a gaming protocol, the Avalanche network ensures it enjoys minimal fees for fast transactions. The Beam network allows gaming developers to focus on building better on-chain games by providing a seamless smart contract onboarding process.

Several gaming projects have already launched on the Beam network. The Trial Xtreme gaming project which has attracted more than 250 million downloads globally is expected to launch on the Beam network. To begin with, Trial Xtreme will launch a trial alpha to gather feedback from users, before launching the full game. Another exciting game expected to launch on the Beam subnet is the Walker World which is powered by Unreal Engine 5.

The Hash Rush is another exhilarating game expected to be launched on the Beam network. The Edenhorde Eclipse gaming project is also anticipated to launch on the Beam subnet.

Each gaming project on the Beam network will have its own USDC/MC liquidity pool to facilitate seamless swapping of the tokens.

Notably, by using the Beam network, gamers can tap on America’s Circle DAO native NFT marketplace to purchase their desired digital collectables.

The Beam development by Merit Circle DAO is a huge plus to the Avalanche ((AVAX) ecosystem that intends to dethrone the Ethereum network as the king of smart contracts. With a market capitalization of approximately $6,855,456,373 and a 24-hour trading volume of about $262,328,821. According to aggregate market data from defillama, the Avalanche enjoys a total value locked (TVL) of approximately $882 million. Some of the top DeFi protocols built on the Avalanche network include AAVE, Benqi, GMX, and Stargate, among many others.

next