The America's Got Talent judge signed a new artist to his company Syco

The America's Got Talent judge signed a new artist to his company Syco

Simon Cowell rarely shares photos of himself that are not related to his successful TV shows, such as America's Got Talent or Britain's Got Talent, but on Monday he made an exception to make an exciting announcement.

Posing inside a gorgeous house with incredible sea views, the music mogul, 63, posed alongside three artists, including his new signing, John Samuel.

He wrote alongside the photo: "I am thrilled to announce that we have signed a brilliant new songwriter/producer @johnsamuel and in the very near future I'm going to start sharing some new songs that I particularly love."

John, who describes himself as a music producer on his official Instagram and has already included "Syco publishing" to describe his new venture shared the same photo and a sweet video of Simon giving him a hug following the deal, which you can see below.

RELATED:  Simon Cowell's son Eric looks identical to his older brother in new photo

"It would be an honor, Simon," he wrote.

He continued: "Finally able to talk about something that's been on the low for a while. I'm beyond excited to officially be a part of the syco family, to be in this industry with such an elite group of people. Thank you to everyone involved in this for your belief, trust, and excellence. With the right team, you can do anything."

Mentioning the two other people in the photo, he added: "Special mention to Chris & Tayla, you two are unstoppable."

Fans were quick to react, praising the new partnership. "Legend in the making, great move!" wrote one, whilst another added: "You're going to be glad you signed him, genius producer and artist."

A third remarked: "@Johnsamuel is the real deal!"

Many other followers questioned Simon's appearance, something the star had to recently address.

Talking to The Mirror recently, he revealed: "I think it's hysterical. I mean, it just makes me laugh. I haven't had a facelift or anything.

"I've had a bit of Botox or whatever, but nothing drastic. So, when I hear about this stuff, honestly it does make me laugh".

Want to keep up to date with the latest stories? Sign up to our HELLO! Newsletters today.