THIS CONTENT IS RESERVED FOR SUBSCRIBERS ONLY Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.  Unlimited online access to articles from across Canada with one account and fewer ads Get exclusive access to the Calgary Sun ePaper, an electronic replica of the print edition that you can share, download and comment on Enjoy insights and behind-the-scenes analysis from our award-winning journalists Support local journalists and the next generation of journalists      Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.  Unlimited online access to articles from across Canada with one account Get exclusive access to the Calgary Sun ePaper, an electronic replica of the print edition that you can share, download and comment on Enjoy insights and behind-the-scenes analysis from our award-winning journalists Support local journalists and the next generation of journalists      Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience.  Access articles from across Canada with one account Share your thoughts and join the conversation in the comments  Get email updates from your favourite authors

Olympian Rebecca Smith and fellow standout swimmer Stephen Calkins have been named the 2022-23 University of Calgary Dinos’ athletes of the year.   We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or

tap here to see other videos from our team.

Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Calgary SUN, a division of Postmedia Network Inc.         There was an error, please provide a valid email address.        By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails or any newsletter. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300    Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Calgary Sun Headline News will soon be in your inbox.   We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again

Chancellor Jon Cornish presented the Senate Service Award to Grace Lew of wrestling, while men’s hockey head coach Mark Howell was crowned the Charlesglen Toyota Coach of the Year.  The Margaret Southern Award for female contribution to the Dinos went to public address announcer Tanya Blakney, while the Dr. Lou Goodwin Award recognized former Dinos golf coach Jamie Reimer. Tiana Carroll and Alex Jozsa were honoured with the Murray Fraser Awards as the outstanding volunteers.    Named for the first athletic director and football coach at the University of Calgary, the Dr. Dennis Kadatz Athlete of the Year awards recognize excellence on the playing field during the varsity season. The winners become the Dinos’ nominees for the U SPORTS athlete of the year awards.

It was another outstanding year in the pool for Rebecca Smith. The Red Deer product was once again named the Canada West Swimmer of the Meet at the conference championships after an outstanding performance that saw her claim seven total medals – five gold and two silver. She also etched her name in the Canada West record book in two more events. Smith then brought home another seven medals at the U SPORTS Championships to cap another outstanding season in the pool. Smith also earned four more medals while wearing the national team cap – one at the 2022 Commonwealth Games over the summer and three at the 2023 FINA World Swimming Championships in January. The nursing major also was named to the prestigious U SPORTS Top 8 Academic All-Canadian list earlier this year for her work both in the pool and in the classroom.

STEPHEN CALKINS | Swimming | 3rd Year | Calgary, AB

In one of the more incredible stories in recent years, Stephen Calkins went from nearly being done with his sport to being one of the top athletes in the country. This past summer, Calkins announced he was retiring from swimming – only to get a call from the national team and an invite to the Commonwealth Games. That proved all the spark he needed – as his return to the Dinos led the charge to their record-tying 21st Canada West Championship. Calkins claimed three gold medals at both the conference and national competitions this season, also helping the Scarlet & Gold to a team runner-up finish at the U SPORTS Championships.  This year marks the first time since 2007 and just the 10th time in school history that the male and female athletes of the year came from the same sport.

The Rookie of the Year awards were created in 2000 and named after Bill Popplewell, a tireless supporter of the Dinos for over two decades as one of the athletic department’s longest-standing corporate partners.    It was quite the first impression made by rookie Sydney Mercier. The Saskatoon product continued to elevate her game throughout the season and stepped up immensely in the second half as her team battled injuries, leading the conference in scoring from January onward. She registered nine goals and 13 assists for 22 points in the regular season and added two helpers in the postseason. Mercier was named both the Canada West and U SPORTS Rookie of the Year.

Carl Tetachuk helped spark one of the best seasons in Dinos men’s hockey history. The rookie netminder stood out for all the right reasons this year, helping the Dinos to a record-breaking 23 wins in a row. The Lethbridge native had a strong save percentage of .914 and tallied a pair of shutouts during the regular season. He earned quite the haul of awards following the regular season, being named the Canada West Goaltender of the Year, as well as helping Calgary win the Adam Kryczka Memorial Trophy, which goes to the Canada West team with the fewest goals against.    The Scholar-Athlete awards recognize outstanding achievement in academics and athletics, and each year four student-athletes are presented with $1,250 scholarships by the Calgary Booster Club.

A standout on the wrestling mat and an Academic All-Canadian in the classroom, Grace Lew has taken on significant community engagement work during her time as a student-athlete, volunteering on the hospice unit at AgeCare SkyPoint. The company’s goal is to adapt to the needs of residents and their families as they navigate their end-of-life, grief and bereavement journeys. As part of her work with SkyPoint, Lew’s inviting and calm presence has provided comfort to many, collaborating and working well with full-time staff and demonstrating significant commitment and direct involvement in improving the hospice care at that unit.

It was an incredible season for the Dinos men’s hockey team, with head coach Mark Howell leading the way. The Calgary bench boss was named the Canada West Coach of the Year after leading the Dinos to a program-record 25 wins this season, claiming their first Canada West title since 1996. He was also named the national coach of the year for the second time in his career. This award is voted on by all varsity head coaches.    The Club Student-Athlete Awards honour two outstanding student-athletes from the Dinos’ competitive club programs for their all-around athletic, academic, and community achievement over the course of the season.

The Margaret Southern Award honours outstanding service and support to athletics by a woman, named in honour of the first female instructor at UCalgary’s Faculty of Physical Education. Inducted into the Alberta Sports Hall of Fame in 1992, Marg and her late husband Ron were the Calgary Booster Club Sportswoman and Sportsman of the Year in 1986 and are well known as pioneers in the Calgary business and equestrian communities as the founders of ATCO and Spruce Meadows.  Tanya Blakney joined the Dinos in 2019 and has quickly become a recognizable voice at nearly every home event. The public address announcer inside the Jack Simpson Gym for all Dinos basketball and volleyball games, Blakney has helped elevate the student-athlete experience with her energetic calls. She can also be heard on the sidelines at Dinos football games and most recently around Father David Bauer Arena during the men’s hockey playoffs. She has become an invaluable member of the game night staff and shows an unwavering commitment while balancing her work at CityNews 660 and academics – pursuing a Digital Marketing Certificate in Communication and Media Studies at UCalgary.

Named for the first Dean of Physical Education at UCalgary, the Dr. Lou Goodwin award honours a male who has provided outstanding service and support to the athletic department. ‘Dr. Lou’ served the city of Calgary, its school system, and its university for more than 45 years and was a founding member of what is now the Faculty of Kinesiology, serving as professor, department head, and dean from 1961 through 1978.  The 2022-23 recipient is Jamie Reimer. For the past five years, Reimer served as the head coach of the Dinos golf program. He was an integral part of the team’s growth and transition from a club program to a varsity team in 2019. With over a decade of coaching in the sport and experience as a player himself, Reimer has been a strong mentor to his athletes and helped build the foundation for the Dinos’ early success in Canada West. In only their second season at the varsity level, Reimer oversaw a Canada West bronze medal team performance in 2021 and an individual conference title for Ethan Banks.

Murray Fraser was president of the University of Calgary from 1988 until his retirement in 1996. A dedicated supporter of the Dinos, Murray and his wife Anne were fixtures in the stands during his time as president, and he was a firm believer in student involvement in campus life and a total university education. The Murray Fraser Awards are presented annually to two students – one male, and one female – who go over and above in their roles with Dinos Athletics.  Tiana Carroll has been a dedicated volunteer with organizations such as Ups and Downs Calgary and Renfrew Educational Services. The four-year member of the field hockey team, Carroll was the Canada West nominee for the Gail Wilson Outstanding Contributor Award. She has been recognized as a Chancellor’s Circle Scholar – a group of up to 40 students selected for their academic excellence and exceptional community involvement. As a member of her team’s leadership group, Carroll also takes on additional responsibilities with the Dinos field hockey program, including organizing of fundraising initiatives.

Gilbertson: GM Treliving’s future is first question for Flames                Dangerous offender needs to be locked up indefinitely, says Crown                UCP candidate says people who have heart attacks should be held accountable                Man charged with kidnapping, assaulting sex workers on acreage near Chestermere                Jeopardy! superchamp Mattea Roach gives all the credit to her Calgary school

This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.