If you’ve followed me long enough, you know I have a rule. I don’t tell others how to do their sports fandom. Some fans are optimists, some are pessimists. Some appreciate the journey, others focus on the destination. Some enjoy playing armchair GM … wait, no, that’s everyone.

Today, I’m making an exception. I’m breaking the rule. Dallas will host the Minnesota Wild on Monday at the American Airlines Center to begin its 2023 playoffs.

Stars fans, you need to enjoy whatever lies ahead. There won’t be another postseason like this for a long time.

I’m not predicting a parade in June. Hell, I’m not even necessarily predicting a deep playoff run, though I do believe this team is equipped for it. I’m talking about the situation, the circumstances that the team finds itself in right now and the circumstances that surround the franchise’s future.

The Stars are legitimate Stanley Cup contenders. That feels weird to say because in recent years, the messaging was so focused on being a playoff contender instead of a Cup contender, but it’s true.

“I can tell you, I don’t think either of those teams (New Jersey and San Jose), or I know for a fact neither of those teams that I took to the final had a regular season like we had here this year,” Stars head coach Pete DeBoer said. “Hopefully that’s a good sign.”

it's been a minute since we did this but regular season is done, it's playoff time and first-round matchup is set.

Stars fans, vibe check! You know the rule, GIF only, drop it below how you're feeling ⤵️

That’s the first circumstance calling for your joy. Independent of anything else, the Stars are actually a good team. In fact, this may be the best Stars team in nearly two decades. The 2020 team got to the end, but they lost the first three games of the season and began 1-7-1. This year’s team came out of the gate 8-3-1 and didn’t lose three consecutive games until late January, and never lost three consecutive games in regulation. The 2020 team lost six consecutive regular-season games before its playoff run began. These Stars have won six consecutive games heading into the playoffs.

The 2016 team had the best regular-season output, finishing with 109 points, but this year’s team finished right on their heels with 108 points. The 2016 team lost its core piece late in the season when Tyler Seguin’s Achilles got sliced. He missed virtually the entirety of the two-round playoff run that year. This year’s team has everybody available. And about the situation in net? The 2016 tandem of Kari Lehtonen and Antti Niemi were 26th and 27th in the NHL, respectively, in save percentage. This year, Jake Oettinger has been a true No. 1 and finished with the fourth-highest save percentage in the NHL.

The confidence in this year’s team goes beyond comparisons to past iterations. Oettinger, combined with the defense in front of him, helped the Stars finish No. 3 in the NHL this season in goals allowed per game. On the other end of the ice, they scored 285 goals, the most in Dallas history since the inaugural team finished with 286 in 1994. Their 3.43 goals per game rank seventh in the NHL.

Special teams have been dominant. The Stars have the No. 5 power play in the NHL and the No. 3 penalty kill. They are the No. 1 faceoff team in the league this year and control play at a high level as well. According to Natural Stat Trick, the Stars are top-10 in Corsi For percentage and expected goals percentage at five-on-five. Those 14 overtime losses during the season that became the team’s kryptonite? That no longer exists in the playoffs.

The second thing is the field the Stars are competing against. Depending on which model you’re looking at, the Stars are among the top four teams favored to emerge from the Western Conference, along with Colorado, Edmonton and Vegas. They would only have to face a maximum of two of them, and Dallas prevailing in any of those series wouldn’t shock anybody. They may not be favored but won’t be heavy underdogs the way they were last year against Calgary.

If the Stars manage to get through the first three rounds, they will likely be a pretty heavy underdog against the Eastern Conference champs. But this is the NHL playoffs. There’s no telling what going through that gauntlet of a conference will do to the survivor, emotionally, physically and mentally. Regardless, you cross that final bridge when you get there, but the path leading to it is quite manageable.

mark it down, Stars vs. Wild schedule pic.twitter.com/oBcHzoqXAs

Here’s where the uniqueness of this particular postseason run comes in. No matter how this season ends, this is just the beginning. Oettinger is 24. Jason Robertson and Miro Heiskanen are 23. Roope Hintz is the elder statesman at 26. All of them are at the beginning of their prime, and all were locked into contracts within the past two years. Wyatt Johnston is 19. Logan Stankoven, 20, is coming. Mavrik Bourque, 21, is coming. Thomas Harley, 21, is a fusion of arrived and coming.

Whether the Stars win the Cup this year or not, there’s a decent chance that the best is still yet to come.

To be clear, none of this absolves the team of the pressure to win this year. As much youth as the Stars have coming down the line to join the youth they already have, Joe Pavelski isn’t getting any younger. Neither is Seguin. It would be a shame to waste the comeback year Jamie Benn has had. These were three of the team’s top-six scorers this year and the excitement of young players coming up doesn’t guarantee they’ll be able to fill these roles someday.

The other heavy source of pressure for this season is health. It’s remarkable to think that every player who was on the opening-night roster and remains on the team is healthy and available for the opening night of the postseason. For the cherry on top, the Stars also have their two trade-deadline acquisitions not just available but thriving in their roles. You only have to take a quick glance around the conference, or even just the division, to understand how rare this sort of luck is when it comes to health. Not only are the Stars healthy but Minnesota and Colorado, their top competition for the first two rounds, are dealing with notable injuries. If you’re the Stars, you want to capitalize on this.

In that sense, this postseason will bring you the same beautiful angst, stress and jubilation that you’ve come to know and love. But whether the Stars lose in the first round or in the Stanley Cup Final, or improbably win the whole thing, there’s going to be real excitement for the future.

The combination of a blossoming present and a bright future is rare. Teams are usually on one side or the other of that equation. The Stars, with their young established core and prospects coming up, are dipping in both pools this year. There will be a time in the future when the pressure will be at fever pitch and every postseason run will feel like a window is closing or an era ending. Maybe the prospect pipeline won’t be as robust, or won’t be as top-heavy. Contracts will be looming and tough salary-cap decisions will have to be made.

That’s not this year. For now, all of the vibes are immaculate. Enjoy it.