KV’s Daimon Dedmon wins the 100M dash by 1/100 of a second, and is 1/100 off of the CIF qualifying time. Daimon ran an 11:25. CIF qualifying time is 11:24. | Kern Valley High School

KV’s Daimon Dedmon wins the 100M dash by 1/100 of a second, and is 1/100 off of the CIF qualifying time. Daimon ran an 11:25. CIF qualifying time is 11:24. | Kern Valley High School

Making up for lost time, the Kern Valley boys and girls track teams competed in two meets last week. In a tri-meet and an invitational, Daimon Dedmon won seven gold medals and a silver as the boys won a dozen events and performed 18 PRs, while the girls performed 35 PRS and won 13 events.

In a rescheduled tri-meet against Mammoth and Bishop, April 12, the Kern Valley boys won nine events and the team achieved 12 PRs, with Daimon Dedmon winning four championships; and Kyle Espinoza-Denys captured three golds with Dedmon setting a school record in the process.

The Broncs’ domination included a one-two-three sweep in the 110M high hurdles, with Daniel Hinkey winning in 20.5, Derrick Hinkey second and Ed Bunting third. Another podium sweep was in the 300M hurdles, won by Derrick Hinkey in 48.84, with Daniel Hinkey second and Isaac Phillips third. The Broncs also swept one-two-three in the shot put with Victor Fregoso first at 35.1 feet, Ed Bunting second and Rafael Martinez third.  Daimon Dedmon led a podium sweep in the High Jump, winning at 5’8”, with Jack Montgomery second and Jackson Weghorst third.

4x100 Relay team of Jack Montgomery, Joey Onsurez, Derrick Hinkey and Kyle Espinoza-Denys first in 48.06. Denys won the 400M dash in 57.97 seconds, with Wyatt Johnston second. Jack Montgomery won the 800M, with Jackson Weghorst fifth and Nolan Wicker sixth. Daimon Dedmon won the 100M dash in 11.08, with Joe Onsurez finishing second, and the 200M dash in 23.37, with Wyatt Johnson third and Joey Onsurez fourth.

Dedmon also won the long jump at 24’9” with Denys second and Denys won the triple jump.

Dedmon’s long leap unofficially placed him second in the nation and first in California. It also breaks his school record from the Cal City Meet which was 23' 3.5."

Daniel Hinkey, fourth and Jackson Weghorst, fifth in the 1600M and Nolan Wicker placed third in the 3200M. Ed Bunting finished second, Victor Fregoso was fourth and Christopher Richey was sixth in the discus.

In the girls competition, the Lady Broncs finished off the tri-meet with 23 PRs and 12 gold-medal finishes, to demolish Bishop 100-27 and Mammoth, 107-20. Aspen Hacker was a three-time gold medalist and the Lady Broncs swept the podium in six events.

The 4x100 relay team of Jewell Tagger, Emily Blankenship, Ashley Denys and Kaya Manwell won with a time of 58.84, Aspen Hacker won the 1600M with Danika D’Amico finishing fifth and Hacker won the 400M, with Emily Blankenship second and Kassandra Guarneros fifth. Hacker made it a triple, winning the 800M with Guarneros finishing fifth. Marissa Tate won the discus, with Mikaela Richey second and Kristin Surico fourth and Jayda Bushling won the 200M with Jessie Bunting in second.

Other top finishers included Hacker, third place, and Guarneros  fifth in the 3200M,  Bunting finishing second, Ashley Denys third and Richey fourth in the shot put

KV girls track coach Brent Mixon said it was a great day for the Lady Broncs track team. “Our young ladies had a great meet for the Kern River Valley,” he said. “We had 23 PRs, which was fantastic considering the weather and being on a dirt track. Our kids are getting stronger and stronger each meet. I am so happy for our kids on how they performed. They started out

strong and never looked back. We have one meet left to determine league champs, and our athletes are reaching for that goal.”

Honored at the home meet were KV’s senior track members:

Kristin Surico – first-year thrower, who will be attending Bakersfield College in the Fall with a focus on Biology. Karyssa Walker – 4-year track distance runner, who will be attending Lewis-Clark State University in IdahoDaimon Dedmon – 2-year Sprinter/Jumper, currently still entertaining junior colleges with sports programsDerrick Hinkey - (Co-Captain) - will be attending Utah State for Computer Science.

Coach Sabine Mixon said, “We will miss our seniors and appreciate their dedication and commitment to our track family, making the time that they have been with us fun, rewarding, and memorable. We wish them the best that life has to offer and want them to come back and visit every opportunity that they have.”

The strong track performances continued at the Lonnie Shelton (Foothill) Invitational, Friday, April 14. Adding six PRs to their week, the Kern Valley Boys won three gold medals with Daimon Dedmon securing the event wins. Dedmon won the 100-meter dash in 11.25 and both the high jump at 5’10” and the Long Jump at 23’7”. The 4x100 relay team of Kyle Espinoza-Denys, Jack Montgomery, Joey Onsurez and Daimon Dedmon placed second in 45.09

Other top-10 finishes included Jack Montgomery, 10th in the 1600M

Derrick Hinkey, ninth in the 300-meter hurdles, Daniel Hinkey, 10th in the 300-meter hurdles, Kyle Denys, fifth in the long jump.

Boys coach Sabine Mixon said the Foothill High School event was an exciting Invitational “We were competing in limited events, but the boys still managed to come in sixth place against these bigger Bakersfield schools. The 4x100 relay team brought home second-place medals with a PR time of 45:09. They are still working to break the school record, but they extended their opportunities by delivering a CIF qualifying time and will. Daimon Dedmon was able to capture first-place medals in High Jump, 100M Dash, and in Long Jump made the official move to second place in California and 12th in the nation with his jump of 23' 7", as his jump of 24’9” earlier in the” week still has not received official validation due to a software glitch.”

Sabine Mixon said the team would be traveling to Boron, Wednesday, to compete in the team’s last HDL Team competition against Desert and Rosamond, which will determine the league title. “Both the boys and girls are looking for a repeat title so we will be working extra hard this week,” she said. On Friday, we will travel to the Patriot Games at Liberty High School.”

The Lady Broncs continued their strong week with a second-place showing at the Lonnie Shelton (Foothill) Invitational. Competing among nine local high schools, Kern Valley scored 92 points as a team to take 2nd place, behind only Ridgeview’s 138 points. The Lady Broncs won one event and had seven top-three finishes and 10PRs. The KV’s gold medal came in the 300M hurdles, with Ella Mauer winning in a PR of 52.68.

Girls coach Brent Mixon said, the team had a fantastic meet on Friday. “The team is still putting up personal records like it is the beginning of the season,” he said. “We continue to get better and better each meet, which is so exciting. The girls are using these invitationals to qualify for the CIF meet at the end of the season.”

In addition to Mauer’s 300M hurdles gold, top KV girls finished included: 100M – Jayda Bushling third; 200M – Bushling fourth; 400M – Aspen Hacker fourth; 1600M Hacker second; 100M hurdles – Mitra Kiosef fifth;  Discus – Marissa Tate second; High Jump – Jessie Bunting second and Maddy Beaton third; Long Jump – Bushling third, Kiosef fourth; Triple jump – Bushling second, Claire Feldschau fourth.

Brent Mixon said the HDL championship is on his team’s mind. “On Wednesday, we have our final league team meet, and if we win this meet we will be league champs,” he said. “The team’s number-one goal at the beginning of the season was to be league champs and we are now one meet away from obtaining that goal.”