In a London studio, seven authors huddle together like unruly sixth formers on the last day of term. Snacks are passed back and forth. The Real Housewives is loudly debated. At one point I overhear one novelist bemoan: “I once had a Hinge date who read my book before we met,” much to the amusement of the group.

This is, perhaps, not what you might expect from a meeting of the finest of the UK’s contemporary literary minds. But that’s exactly what it is. British Vogue has gathered, for an exclusive portrait, some of the most exciting names from Granta’s Best of Young British Novelists list, the literary journal’s once-in-a-decade round-up of the 20 most significant young British authors – one that, since 1983, has predicted the success of Kazuo Ishiguro, Salman Rushdie and Zadie Smith.

There’s K Patrick, 36, a former greengrocer based in the Outer Hebrides, who started writing their queer romance Mrs S in lockdown. There’s #Merky Books-signed Derek Owusu, 34, a gentle-spirited Londoner who has become known for his prize-winning, poetic writing about mental health and masculinity. There’s Graeme Armstrong, giddy at 31, who writes stories, such as bestselling novel The Young Team, soaked in the Glaswegian gang culture he grew up in. There’s 34-year-old Sophie Mackintosh, the much-feted, whip-smart Welsh author of cult hit The Water Cure, and Isabella Hammad, a 32-year-old Londoner, who has a charming Waller-Bridge-esque awkwardness, albeit combined with a track record for award-winning poignant novels about Palestine. Natasha Brown, 32, who quit her London finance job in 2019 to write her society-examining, Vogue-championed debut, Assembly, has also made the coveted list. As has Brighton-born Saba Sams, a 26-year-old mother of two known for her girlhood-inspired short story collection Send Nudes.

Along with names such as Eleanor Catton, Olivia Sudjic and Eliza Clarke, Granta’s 2023 crop (which includes more women than ever before) now share the most coveted literary moniker: must-read author, though all claim they didn’t know their publishers had entered them for the prize, open to all British or UK-residing writers aged under 40. Granta’s core editorial team, led by outgoing editor Sigrid Rausing, alongside celebrated authors Tash Aw, Rachel Cusk, Helen Oyeyemi and essayist Brian Dillon, took more than a year to whittle down hundreds of writers to a top 20. “If this generation has a theme,” explains Rausing, “I would say it’s pollution, in the largest sense: both to do with the destruction or degradation of nature, but also the pervasive sense of perceiving other minds and bodies as a threat. A diminishment of pleasure.”

That said, today the mood is convivial. It’s the first time the writers have learnt who else is in the class of 2023. They seem relieved to have found peers to share the experience with, and delighted – if a little terrified – to have made it on the list. “It’s dreamlike,” says Brown. Sams agrees. “It’s special,” she says. “And it feels like a projection for the rest of my work: that I will write another book and that it will probably be good.”

She’s right. Looking around the group, it’s thrilling to think that many here will grow to become our future literary titans, that their work may end up read, studied and celebrated for decades to come. Still, for now, the authors seem happier chatting about the pros and cons of writing in bed than taking themselves too seriously. “Who knows, though… Give it 20 years and we might all be like Martin Amis,” says Owusu, laughing.