Hearst Newspapers participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may earn a commission when you purchase products featured in this content or purchase from vendors featured here. Our professional curators independently research and recommend products and services, with no newsroom involvement. Merchants can pay for a sponsored listing and may choose to rewrite their summary. When that happens, we label the listing as “Sponsored” and highlight it in grey to differentiate the merchant-provided content from our writing.

If you want what has to be one of the most popular and sought-after indica cannabis strains of all time, then Blueberry Kush strain is certainly something for you to check out. When it comes to strains that may help your mind and body relax and something that is likely going to put you to sleep at the end of the day, Blueberry Kush is always at the top of the list.

Not only does it produce those classic sedative indica effects, but it also has an extremely enjoyable flavor of blueberries, fruits, and so much more. Today, we are doing a Blueberry Kush weed strain review to find out exactly what you’re in for if you purchase it.

We’ll cover quite literally everything there is to know about this strain, including its genetics, terpenes, effects, flavors, and much more in our Blueberry Kush strain review. Let’s get to it and figure out whether or not the Blueberry Kush weed strain is right for you.

* Blueberry Kush is made by crossing OG Kush with Blueberry.

* Blueberry Kush may contain anywhere between 18% and 26% THC, with somewhere around 23% or 24% being quite common.

* This strain will likely make you raid your fridge and then fall asleep.

If you want to purchase the Blueberry Kush weed strain for yourself, there is no better place to be than Botany Farms. Botany Farms has an absolutely massive selection of various Blueberry Kush products with CBD.

If that is something that would interest you, check out this Botany Farms Blueberry Kush CBD strain or these Botany Farms CBD Blueberry Kush Pre-Rolls.

Blueberry Kush is a new strain to our lineup this year and it does not disappoint.

Technically speaking, the Blueberry Kush strain is an indica-dominant hybrid. Therefore, when smoked or consumed in any way, you can expect the effects to be characterized by the indica side of things. This typically means a body buzz that is fairly sedative in nature.

The Blueberry Kush strain being sold by most vendors also has fairly high THC levels, so beginners should beware. If you’re not into that, you can easily get genetically modified CBD versions of this strain as well from sites like Botany Farms we linked above. Generally speaking, it is a high-THC strain that is ideal for seasoned connoisseurs and for people who need something potent to help them get a good night’s sleep.

In terms of appearance, Blueberry Kush looks like classic marijuana buds. It features fairly round and evenly shaped buds that are also quite compact in nature. They aren’t overly light and fluffy, but also not like little pebbles. As for the colors, these buds are moderate to dark green in color, often with light green accents.

You should also notice a select few purple or bluish sugar hairs, combined with some orange hairs or pistils, as well as a layer of those crystally white trichomes that we all like. Realistically, it’s not the most visually appealing cannabis strain out there, but we aren’t going for appearance here. Blueberry Kush is all about the flavor and the effects.

As mentioned above, Blueberry Kush is an indica-dominant hybrid marijuana strain. One of the parent strains is a hybrid, which is extremely indica-dominant, and the other is 100% indica. This leaves Blueberry Kush at around 90% indica, if not higher.

For the record, Blueberry Kush is made by crossing two fan favorites, Blueberry and OG Kush. OG Kush may also be known as Premium OG Kush, and this is a three-way cross between Hindu Kush, Chemdawg, and Lemon Thai. We then have Blueberry, which is an indica strain made by crossing Thai with Purple Thai.

Blueberry Kush, by default, may not contain notable amounts of CBD, although it does sometimes contain up to 1% CBG. CBG is another great cannabinoid worth checking out, one that may have a variety of medical benefits. However, Blueberry Kush does have a fairly high level of THC. Now, depending on the exact specimen in question, it may contain anywhere between 18% and 26% THC.

On average, you can expect this strain to contain between 23% and 25% THC. As you can tell, that is a good deal of THC, so beginners should exercise caution and start slow. Due to this being such an indica-dominant strain combined with high THC levels, it’s going to hit and have you put you to sleep.

There are three main terpenes in Blueberry Kush. The first one is myrcene, which has a fairly herbal and earthy scent. We then have caryophyllene, which has a spicy and peppery scent. And we then have pinene, which has a flavor of pine. We will take a closer look at the exact flavor profile of the Blueberry Kush strain further below.

As far as the effects are concerned, Blueberry Kush is a classic indica. Thanks to its very high THC content, it should hit you immediately, and it should sedate you. The high from Blueberry Kush is characterized by very heavy body relaxation.

Your body, particularly your limbs, is going to feel very heavy and sleepy. You may also notice a good deal of general relaxation and pain relief. You may also notice that your limbs feel tingly. You should also notice yourself really sinking into that couch, with your head feeling like it’s floating up in outer space.

Not long after your first hit, you’re likely going to get very hungry because the munchies are very real with this strain. You should feel quite sedated and sleepy within no time at all. Yes, this strain will also hit your head, however. You should feel that very strong sense of euphoria and mental relaxation.

Frosty white trichomes and bright orange hairs surround each bud. Upon opening the jar, a scent of fresh blueberries and grapes fill the room. Blueberry Kush is a smooth sm

While researching the Blueberry Kush strain review, we discovered the variety does have some interesting flavors. As you can probably tell by its name, it tastes like blueberries, and it has a distinct sweetness about it too. You might also notice hints of pine and pepper on the exhale.

What is worth noting about the Blueberry Kush strain is that it is not ideal for beginners to grow. This is quite a finicky plant that requires fairly specific amounts of sunlight and water, and it requires constant temperature and humidity levels too. That said, if you know what you are doing, you can get some pretty decent yield out of it. If you grow it outdoors, you should get around 25 oz for every plant.

The most similar strains to Blueberry Kush would be Blueberry and OG Kush. Furthermore, Godfather OG would also be quite similar.

Now that the Blueberry Kush strain review is complete, it’s time for final thoughts.

To sum it all up, Blueberry Kush is an absolutely delicious indica strain that will help you feel relaxed, sleepy, and hungry. It contains a lot of THC, and the effects we mostly described in this article are relevant to variants of this flower containing high THC. However, vendors have genetically modified this strain to have CBD with very minute quantities of THC. If your tolerance isn’t that high or you just don’t want the overwhelming psychoactive effect from THC, the CBD Blueberry Kush products from Botany Farms are a great alternative.

Blueberry Kush is a new strain to our lineup this year and it does not disappoint.

Frosty white trichomes and bright orange hairs surround each bud. Upon opening the jar, a scent of fresh blueberries and grapes fill the room. Blueberry Kush is a smooth sm

Hearst Newspapers participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may earn a commission when you click links in this content. Our professional curators independently research and recommend products and services, with no newsroom involvement. Merchants can pay for a sponsored listing and may choose to rewrite their summary. When that happens, we label the listing as “Sponsored” and highlight it in grey to differentiate the merchant-provided content from our writing.