BREAKING NEWS! Celebrating The Life And Ministry of Dr. Charles Stanley With Another Article BCNN1. COM Posted Years Ago As He Has Gone To Heaven To Be With The Lord Today. Dr. Charles Stanley, A Man Whom BCNN1 Has Honored And Who Was Targeted By The Devil Years Ago With A Withering Attack — His Wife Divorcing Him For no Reason, and His Absalom Son Andy Stanley Turning Judas On Him Forsaking Him — Has Hung On By Prayer And Faith In God And Is Doing Quite Well At The Age Of 90, And Even Though He Has Turned Over The Church To His Hand-picked Successor, He Is Still Preaching Regularly And Working 30 Hours a Week For The Lord. If The Lord Tarries His Coming, Dr. Stanley Could Easily Live Past 100. We Praise God For This Godly Pastor Whom God Has Used To Reach Millions Around The World. Dr. Stanley, Before You Leave Us, Please Do The Church A Solid And Publicly Rebuke Your Son, The Heretic Andy Stanley, Whom The Devil Is Using To Try To Tear Down Everything You Have Preached And Everything You Believe In. Do Not Let This False Prophet/Pastor, Even Though He Is Your Son, be A Part Of The Out-of-This-World Legacy God Has Given You.

If you’re worried about Charles Stanley being destitute in his old age, worry no more. He’ll turn 90 years of age on September 25 and still draws a salary of more than half a million dollars annually from In Touch Ministries.

Televangelism still pays very well.

Not only that, In Touch Ministries, the nonprofit organization that distributes Stanley’s sermons via television, radio, books and the internet, has net assets of more than $113 million.

To its credit, all this financial information is transparent and available online because In Touch Ministries has not declared itself a “church” and still follows the Internal Revenue Service rules for financial reporting through Form 990.

Other big-name evangelical nonprofits — including the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association and Samaritan’s Purse — have taken advantage of an IRS loophole to declare themselves churches or an association of churches mainly so they don’t have to file public financial reports.

A recent article written by Kim Roberts for the MinistryWatch website pointed out this and other financial data about In Touch Ministries. A separate examination of the organization’s IRS filings by Baptist News Global confirmed the facts as reported.