Real Madrid head coach Carlo Ancelotti does not see an issue with Chelsea co-owner Todd Boehly giving a speech to the Blues players in the dressing room.

Chelsea caretaker manager Frank Lampard revealed on Monday that Boehly routinely speaks to the team, saying he is fine with that being the case.

Former Blues boss Ancelotti said that if Lampard is comfortable with it, he does not think it is a problem.

Chelsea’s 2-1 home defeat to Brighton and Hove Albion on Saturday was their third loss in a row, and they are without a win in six (D2 L4), sitting in 11th place in the Premier League.

Speaking at a press conference ahead of Madrid’s Champions League quarter-final second leg against Chelsea, Ancelotti said: “To have a speech from the owner could be an important thing for the players. The Chelsea moment is not a good moment… if the owner wants to talk to the players, absolutely.”

However, he stopped short of signing off on the idea of Madrid president Florentino Perez doing the same in his dressing room.

“If [Perez] wants to talk to me every game, I would be happy to do that,” he said. “The owner[/president] has the right to know what the decisions of the manager are.”   Chelsea crumble to another defeat at Stamford BridgeI blame no one; Potter says after Chelsea's home loss

Los Blancos take a 2-0 lead into the second leg at Stamford Bridge, and Ancelotti knows the job is not yet done, with his team almost throwing away a two-goal advantage at the same stage against the same opposition in last year’s competition.

After winning 3-1 at Stamford Bridge, Madrid were 3-0 down in the return leg at the Santiago Bernabeu, only for a Rodrygo goal to send it to extra-time before Karim Benzema scored the winner.

“[We have] plenty of motivation,” he said. “It’s a big game, and we know we have to put in a good performance.

“There are still at least 90 minutes to play, and anything can happen, but we will be ready.”

The Italian would not be drawn on links with Borussia Dortmund midfielder Jude Bellingham, with reports suggesting Madrid and Manchester City are at the front of the queue for the England international after Liverpool allegedly withdrew their interest due to finances.

“Unfortunately, Bellingham is a Dortmund player, and I don’t like to talk about players of other teams. Sorry,” Ancelotti said.