The most exciting portion of a Strongman season is almost here, since the 2023 World’s Strongest Man is set to take place on April 19-23, in Myrtle Beach, South Carolina. The four-day competition will feature 30 of the world’s greatest Strongmen, but only ten of the best performers after two days will go through to the finals. It is impossible to predict what the leaderboards could look like. So, the only way to find out is to follow or watch the competition.

In the same manner as previous years, the only way to experience 2023 World’s Strongest Man is to be present in Myrtle Beach. In spite of this, there is some good news for those attending the event in person, as there will be no admission charge.

Unfortunately, anyone who wants to follow the competition from the comfort of their home will have to wait until this summer. There won’t be a livestream available, but the full competition will be broadcasted by CBS Sports Network and CBS Television Network, beginning on May 28th.

In addition, Terry Hollands will be covering the event on the World’s Strongest Man YouTube channel, giving you insight from backstage.

Not to worry, we will cover the 2023 World’s Strongest Man live as well, from start to finish. All of the results, records, news, and much more will be available as soon as they happen.

Related: Brian Shaw Reveals How He Almost Lost His Leg In Preparation For 2023 World’s Strongest Man

The full schedule for the 2023 World’s Strongest Man has been released already. So, here is when the action will take place.

With the events and schedule determined, the only aspect left to look at is the roster. Luckily, the lineup of athletes is once again incredible, featuring three WSM champions and many credible challengers. Tom Stoltman is the reigning champion, and it remains to be seen if he can win his third consecutive title.

Read also: Every Winner of The World’s Strongest Man Competition Since 1977

It will take a lot of tactics to win the title of 2023 World’s Strongest Man, since the athletes need to conserve energy so that they can compete in the finals. So, it will be interesting to see who will be able to accomplish this task the best. Although there won’t be a livestream available, you can still stay up to date with the competition’s results, recap, and news through written content. Therefore, we will keep you posted on every update regarding the 2023 World’s Strongest Man.

Find complete coverage of the 2023 World’s Strongest Man, including exclusive interviews, event recaps, analysis, and results at our WSM coverage hub:  FitnessVolt.com/wsm