Over the last few months, we’ve heard the news about Charles Leclerc chasing robbers who stole his expensive Richard Mille watch on his Ferrari. As it turns out, the Ferrari ace hasn’t been the only target in terms of having Richard Mille watches stolen as Sky Sports pundit Martin Brundle too, nearly lost out on his collection.

Brundle boys with our great friend Richard Mille at launch of his new watch space in Harrods. Flower power 😎 pic.twitter.com/0rUgPxMpLY

According to Business F1, burglars broke into his home in Norfolk back in 2021 and wrecked it. Reports suggest that they were looking for Brundle’s Richard Mille collection, which is quite extensive in his household. Over the years, we’ve seen Brundle wear different varieties of Richard Mille watches and some of them can be worth up to $1 million in the second-hand market.

Business F1 states that Brundle has about 12 of these watches which means that the burglars could have gotten about $12 million worth of stolen goods from the 63-year-old’s house.

Brundle and his family were not home during the time of this burglary, but as reported, his entire family was shaken by the incident. Because of the Briton’s work with Sky Sports, he has to be travel all over the world and isn’t home on most days. Upon returning, Brundle noticed that his house was badly damaged and ransacked.

However, he made precautions to make sure that this wasn’t repeated in the future. Brundle’s Richard Mille collection remains safe for now, and all those watches which he got during his time as brand ambassador, stay in his possession.

Richard Mille watches are popular among F1 drivers because of its exclusivity. However, this also makes them targets of attempted robbery as Leclerc and Lando Norris experienced over the last few years.

Charles Leclerc’s $320,000 Richard Mille watch was stolen in Italy while signing autographs and taking photos with fans. https://t.co/fOCWxSa1pX

In July of 2021, Norris had his Richard Mille watch stolen at the Wembley stadium in London, when he was out to watch a football game. Leclerc on the other hand, stopped to sign autographs and take pictures with some thieves disguising themselves as fans.

F1 driver Lando Norris was mugged after the Euro 2020 final.

He was returning to his McLaren car in an official Wembley car park when he was attacked by two men.#bbcf1

However, as soon as he complied, they snatched his expensive $330,000 watch and ran away.