We will be hearing a lot more about community power in the weeks and months ahead. That’s because some 30 towns and cities in New Hampshire including Portsmouth are part of the future of electricity purchases for consumers. John Tabor, a City Councilor In Portsmouth, has been a staunch supporter of towns and cities that have combined to seek out the most economical electricity generator. Podcast producer Roger Wood speaks to Tabor in this podcast.

Veteran media executive’s team expanded Seacoast Media Group from $4.5M 1997 to $29M in 2016. His experience included startups, acquisitions, merging/consolidating operations into local cluster, online media, new product development, building our printing and delivery divisions, marketing and branding. He is passionate about top-quality journalism and business expansion.

Retired in January 2018, he has since taken up public service as an elected city councilor in Portsmouth. He serves on the Legislative Affairs, Audit, Governance, Energy Advisory and Fee committees, and also work on public engagement methods for policy decisions.

Roger Wood is an award winning radio, podcast, newspaper and television journalist, with over 40 years of experience in the media.   Roger has spent his entire professional career in New Hampshire. Roger currently serves as associate publisher and podcast producer at InDepthNH.org.  In 2021 and 2022, he was recognized by the New Hampshire Press Association for his work in news podcasts. Prior to that he was honored for his work in broadcast radio news and public affairs. He has produced news and special feature reports for InDepthNH,New Hampshire Public Radio, NPR, and other public and commercial radio stations.  He also has produced spot news for CBS Radio. He has produced and narrated some 50 audiobooks and has written three novels.  Roger has also moderated political forums for Seacoast Area Chambers of Commerce in Senate, gubernatorial and congressional races. He has also facilitated public policy discussions locally and statewide.  He has three adult children and four grandchildren. Roger and his wife Elaine, reside in Portsmouth with their cat Sebastian.