Following a start to the year that included mass layoffs, Finch Therapeutics is refocusing its efforts.

The company announced Tuesday that it will partner with Brigham and Women’s Hospital on a clinical trial examining CP101 in treating ulcerative colitis (UC), a type of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).

As part of the collaboration, Finch will work with Brigham and Women’s Hospital to investigate the efficacy of two doses of CP101 in patients with mild-to-moderate UC, as well as provide safety and pharmacokinetics data. The study also aims to provide more evidence on how the microbiome can help treat UC, the company stated.

The move is part of Finch’s revised strategy to focus on collaborations and partnerships after it survived several tough years, including halting its main trial for CP101 and laying off the majority of its staff.

The announcement reflects the organization’s “continued progress executing against our strategy to build value and advance our microbiome technology through external partnerships,” Finch CEO Mark Smith said in a statement.

CP101 is an oral microbiome therapeutic that aims to develop a diverse microbial community.

The Brigham and Women’s Hospital partnership to advance CP101 comes after several years of turmoil for Finch, which announced back in January it would be halting its PRISM4 Phase III trial for CP101 in recurrent C. difficile infection. In tandem with that decision, Finch laid off 95% of its staff.

Still, Finch pointed to the potential of CP101 and other preclinical microbiome products for treating UC, Crohn’s disease and autism spectrum disorder.

Some of Finch’s earlier struggles were linked to concerns that its stool sample therapeutics could be infected with COVID-19. To that end, the Food and Drug Administration put a clinical hold on the company and required it to provide new testing protocols for stool samples after December 2019.

Under the new clinical trial agreement with Brigham and Women’s Hospital, Finch has also updated its license agreement with the University of Minnesota. The new license agreement will allow Finch to reach milestones through sublicensing agreements.

“The clinical trial agreement to evaluate CP101 in ulcerative colitis builds on many years of work at Finch to develop product candidates to serve this important unmet medical need,” Smith said. “We look forward to working with our collaborators at Brigham and Women’s Hospital to evaluate CP101 in this new clinical setting, where I believe an orally administered Complete Consortia product offers the potential to reset the pathophysiology of this disease.”

Finch said it expects topline data from the new clinical trial in 2025.