DUBLIN, IRELAND: Teresa Giudice's bachelorette party encountered a snag on the April 18 episode of 'The Real Housewives of New Jersey' when Melissa Gorga's daughter was brought up. Viewers eagerly spoke out on Twitter. Most took sides, defending their favorite housewife while accusing the other of instigating a family feud.

One major restriction in the universe of The Real Housewives is that children are off-limits. Teresa brought this up after Jackie Goldschneider drew a comparison to Gia Giudice using cocaine in a restroom. But it didn't stop Teresa from pulling Melissa's kids into their turmoil during the April 18 episode of 'RHONJ'. Viewers were moved to tears as they witnessed the youngsters being pulled into their parents' mess.

Is Dolores Catania ready to marry Paulie Connell? 'RHONJ' star shares crazy wedding plan with cast

'Wow this is ridiculous': Internet trolls 'RHONJ' star Teresa Giudice as she joins women’s health board

On their first night in Ireland, the cast celebrated Teresa's bachelorette celebration by going to a bar with the locals. Everyone played a game of chugging beer while out, and Jackie was voted the champion. Fortunately for the women, there was no commotion, and everyone went to bed quietly. The same could not be stated for the rest of the journey.

Teresa informed the woman that her relationship with her ex-husband Joe Giudice is "very good" now. Everyone was relieved to hear that, but it also spurred Rachel Fuda to inquire about Teresa's children's relationship with Melissa and Joe Gorga's children in the middle of their continuous crisis. Teresa then stated that they "were" until Antonia Gorga did not attend Milania Giudice's sweet sixteen celebrations. Melissa stated that Antonia had a cheer competition in Pennsylvania and that if she missed another one, she'd be removed from the team. Melissa also stated that one of Teresa's daughters, Gabriella Giudice, missed her son Gino Gorga's communion due to a football competition and that they understood, so Teresa should as well. Teresa, on the other hand, accused Melissa of playing "tit-for-tat" instead of seeing it from that angle.

Finally, Teresa stated that she simply wants the children to "stay close" and that she was not attempting to criticize or blame Antonia for anything. But Melissa couldn't believe Teresa would even bring up Antonia when she was so outraged over Jackie making up an inaccurate accusation about Gia a few seasons ago.

Melissa contacted Joe after the women had lunch and informed him what had transpired. During their talk, Melissa questioned whether they "belong at the wedding." However, Joe stated that Teresa's "goal" is to persuade them not to attend so that they "look bad" to the rest of the world, therefore they can't allow her to win. Melissa, on the other hand, recently informed Margaret Josephs that she is inclined to cut Teresa off in the same way Teresa cut off her cousins, Kathy Wakile and Rosie Pierri.

Calling out the hypocrisy viewers saw during the episode, one tweeted, "Isn’t Melissa the same one that said Tre’s children have “hate in their heart” for them but pissed over a comment lol." Another chimed in, "Melissa talk about Teresa: “Don’t you dare say my daughter's name or bring her up in a negative light.” Also Melissa (and Joe): The Giudice girls wouldn’t have food and home if it wasn’t for us.

Bringing back an old clip of Melissa's, a fan tweeted, "Melissa to Teresa: You be that aunt, I’m not gonna be the aunt that brings up the kids. Kids are off limits, I’m not bringing the next generation into it. #rhonj Also Melissa:" While slamming the Gorgas, a viewer asked, "So when Melissa & Joe talked about the girls on their podcast, it was ok. But when Teresa talks about Antonia to Melissa, it’s a problem?" Another person added, "Y’all are weird AF!! It’s ok for Melissa to talk about Teresa’s girls all season & the hate in their hearts. But Teresa can’t say Antonia missed a party!? GTFOH." Calling her out on her lie, a viewer tweeted, "Melissa is overreacting about this sweet 16 comment. And of course she brought up not being in the wedding party. I thought she was over it and didn’t care??!! You mean she lied?"

Quoting the Gorgas, one tweeted, "so melissa and bitch boy can go on a podcast and say they put food on their nieces’ table but teresa says antonia didn’t go to a party and it’s WWIII." Calling Melissa dramatic, one wrote, "Melissa, Teresa never said anything bad about Antonia. Milania was upset that her cousin didn't come to her party. I would be upset too. Melissa is so dramatic." Another tweet read, "Now Melissa is going to call Joe and make this whole Antonia thing more than what it is and rile him up and they’ll both act like they have amnesia and forget they already spoke about Teresa’s daughters before this. This is what she always does." One person tweeted, "Well well well. Look at what we have here. Melissa literally broke her own teeth when Antonia’s name was even MENTIONED! Yet, she and Joe want to shrug their shoulders at the disgusting lies they say about Teresa’s girls? They’re FOS."

Do you want more drama? 'The Real Housewives of New Jersey' airs new episodes on Bravo every Tuesday at 9 pm.

This article contains remarks made on the Internet by individual people and organizations. MEAWW cannot confirm them independently and does not support claims or opinions being made online.