Just In

Seaford Man Sentenced to Jail and 10 Years’ Probation as Sex...

Attorney General James to Host First Ever Statewide Gun Buyback on...

Hot Topics

Man Charged with Murder and DWI After Fatal Assault at Baldwin...

Mastic Man Sentenced to 10 Years in Prison for String of 2021...

Press Releases

Long Island's Hidden Fortune: How to Claim Your Share of New...

Legislator Lafazan, Citizens Campaign for the Environment: Help...

Best and Worst States to Find a Job in 2023

Co-Defendant Marcus Brown Was Previously Sentenced to 10 Years in Prison.

Suffolk County District Attorney Raymond A. Tierney has announced that Jvon Creighton, 27, of Mastic, was sentenced to 10 years in prison after pleading guilty in September 2022 for his role in multiple gunpoint robberies that occurred throughout Suffolk County in 2021.

“This defendant, while released on parole supervision, along with his co-defendant, terrorized hard-working small business owners, robbing them of their money at gunpoint,” said District Attorney Tierney. “These were vicious robberies; one victim needed 25 sutures to close facial wounds following a pistol whipping. Such gratuitous violence will not be tolerated in Suffolk County.”

According to the investigation and the defendant’s admissions during his guilty plea allocution, from October 2021 to December 2021, Creighton and co-defendant Marcus Brown, 34, of Coram, participated in a string of gunpoint gas station robberies that occurred at businesses located within the Third, Fourth, Fifth, Sixth and Seventh Suffolk County Police Department Precincts. In each of the robberies, the convenience store clerks were held at gunpoint while Creighton and Brown demanded cash.

Creighton and Brown pleaded guilty and were sentenced for robberies that took place on the following dates:

During the final robbery on December 12, 2021, Brown pistol whipped a 7-Eleven clerk in the head twice, causing bleeding and facial wounds that required 25 sutures to close. Approximately $10,000 in cash proceeds were taken during the series of robberies.

On September 26, 2022, Creighton pleaded guilty before Supervising Judge of the County Court and Supreme Court Justice, the Honorable Richard Ambro, to four counts of Robbery in the First Degree, a Class B violent felony, four counts of Robbery in the Second Degree, a Class C violent felony, and Assault in the Second Degree, a Class D violent felony. On April 13, 2023, Judge Ambro sentenced Creighton to 10 years in prison. The District Attorney’s Office recommended a sentence of 14 years at the time of his plea. Creighton was represented by Robert Kelly, Esq.

On July 5, 2022, Brown pleaded guilty before Judge Ambro to eight counts of Robbery in the First Degree, a Class B violent felony, eight counts of Robbery in the Second Degree, a Class C violent felony, and Assault in the Second Degree, a Class D violent felony. On October 19, 2022, Judge Ambro sentenced Brown to 10 years in prison. The District Attorney’s Office argued for a sentence of 18 years. Brown was represented by Christopher Cassar, Esq.

These cases were prosecuted by Assistant District Attorney William Richards of the Violent Criminal Enterprise Bureau.

Seaford Man Sentenced to Jail and 10 Years’ Probation as Sex Offender for "Deepfaked" Sexual Images

Inwood Man Arrested After Allegedly Kidnapping Woman, Robbing and Beating Her with a Pipe

Daily Top 10: 10 St. Patrick's Day Events to Go Green For

Bruno, Last Sandy Survivor Dog to be Adopted from Nassau County Emergency Pet Shelter, Celebrates 3 Years with New Family

Police: One Man Shot and Killed, Four Others Injured Following Lindenhurst Altercation

A. G. Underwood Announces Major Prison Sentence For Repeated Fraudster Who Scammed His Own Mother, Girlfriends, And Veterans

Police Seeking Man and Woman in Connection with Northport Lottery Scam

LongIsland.com - Your Name sent you Article details of "Mastic Man Sentenced to 10 Years in Prison for String of 2021 Armed Robberies"