In the current IPL 2023 match on Saturday, Punjab Kings (PBKS) player Shahrukh Khan made a stunning catch to get rid of Lucknow Super Giants (LSG) all-rounder Krunal Pandya. At Lucknow’s Ekana Cricket Stadium, the competition is being held.

In the 15th over of LSG’s inning, Kagiso Rabada’s bowling produced this breathtaking moment. The Proteas speedster struck the stumps with a brief delivery. Shahrukh was there when Krunal hit it toward the shorter boundary in the deep midwicket area.

The 27-year-old took the catch, turned to the side, and saw that the momentum was pushing him toward the boundary and that he was going to hit the advertisement skirting.

Shahrukh demonstrated his mental agility by tossing the ball into the air settling returning from the other side of the boundary rope and then taking the catch once more. Pandya was dismissed after 17 balls for 18 runs.

The in-form Nicholas Pooran was then out for a first-ball duck as Rabada immediately followed it up with another dismissal. Shahrukh Khan completed yet another catch in the same area as the southpaw went for a big hit on a pitch that was bowled outside the off stump.

The batter only received a lot of elevation and minimal actual distance. Rabada dropped LSG to 111-4 in 14.3 overs after taking two quick wickets. After 20 overs, the home team managed to score 159/8.

After being asked to bat first by the Punjab Kings on Saturday, KL Rahul took the initiative as the Lucknow Super Giants amassed 159/8 in their allotted 20 overs.

In just 56 balls, the right-hander scored 74 runs, including one six and eight boundaries. Krunal Pandya and Marcus Stoinis were the other two LSG batters to reach double digits after a middle-order collapse. While Kyle Mayers contributed 29 runs as well.

Stand-in captain Sam Curran finished with a score of 3/31 for PBKS and Kagiso Rabada claimed two wickets. Sikandar Raza, Harpreet Brar, and Arshdeep Singh each claimed one wicket.

Get the latest cricket news here, like us on Facebook, and follow us on Twitter and Instagram for more such updates.