Skip to main content

You have permission to edit this article.

Devin Booker scored 38 points, Kevin Durant had 25 and the Phoenix Suns beat the Los Angeles Clippers 123-109 on Tuesday night in Game 2 to tie the Western Conference first-round series

Phoenix Suns guard Devin Booker (1) drives on Los Angeles Clippers forward Kawhi Leonard (2) during the second half of Game 2 of a first-round NBA basketball playoff series, Tuesday, April 18, 2023, in Phoenix. (AP Photo/Matt York)

Phoenix Suns guard Devin Booker (1) drives on Los Angeles Clippers forward Kawhi Leonard (2) during the second half of Game 2 of a first-round NBA basketball playoff series, Tuesday, April 18, 2023, in Phoenix. (AP Photo/Matt York)

Los Angeles Clippers guard Terance Mann (14) is fouled by Phoenix Suns forward Kevin Durant (35) during the first half of Game 2 of a first-round NBA basketball playoff series, Tuesday, April 18, 2023, in Phoenix. (AP Photo/Matt York)

Referee Scott Foster runs up court during the first half of Game 2 of a first-round NBA basketball playoff series between the Los Angeles Clippers and the Phoenix Suns, Tuesday, April 18, 2023, in Phoenix. (AP Photo/Matt York)

Phoenix Suns forward Kevin Durant (35) looks for a call against the Los Angeles Clippers during the first half of Game 2 of a first-round NBA basketball playoff series, Tuesday, April 18, 2023, in Phoenix. (AP Photo/Matt York)

Los Angeles Clippers guard Eric Gordon (10) drives as Phoenix Suns forward Torrey Craig (0) and forward Kevin Durant (35) defend during the first half of Game 2 of a first-round NBA basketball playoff series, Tuesday, April 18, 2023, in Phoenix. (AP Photo/Matt York)

Los Angeles Clippers guard Norman Powell (24) shoots over Phoenix Suns center Bismack Biyombo (18) during the first half of Game 2 of a first-round NBA basketball playoff series, Tuesday, April 18, 2023, in Phoenix. (AP Photo/Matt York)

Los Angeles Clippers guard Russell Westbrook (0) signals three after a basket against the Phoenix Suns during the first half of Game 2 of a first-round NBA basketball playoff series, Tuesday, April 18, 2023, in Phoenix. (AP Photo/Matt York)

Los Angeles Clippers guard Russell Westbrook backs down Phoenix Suns guard Devin Booker, left, during the second half of Game 1 of a first-round NBA basketball playoff series, Sunday, April 16, 2023, in Phoenix. (AP Photo/Matt York)

Copyright 2023 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed without permission.

You don't have any notifications.

Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.

You are logged in

This is the name that will be displayed next to your photo for comments, blog posts, and more. Choose wisely!

Your e-mail address will be used to confirm your account. We won't share it with anyone else.

Create a password that only you will remember. If you forget it, you'll be able to recover it using your email address.

Casa Grande Dispatch e-editionReceive a link to the newest Casa Grande Dispatch e-edition in your inbox each Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday!

Maricopa Monitor e-editionIn Your In-Box the Third Friday of Each Month!

Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in.

Invalid password or account does not exist

Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password.

An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the e-mail address listed on your account.

You are logged in

Macedonia, the former Yugoslav Republic of

How would you like to pay?

I Agree to the Subscription  Terms of Use.

This service will be automatically renewed and your credit card billed once it nears expiration

Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in.

A receipt was sent to your email.

This offer is currently unavailable.