Did you know that as of January 2023 there were around 4.3 million people registered as self-employed in the United Kingdom? A deeper dive into the statistics shows that around 757,000 of those people were working in the capital London. Being self-employed brings with it copious advantages, not least the fact you are in charge of your working hours and working days. It can mean having to take extra care with your finances, of course, setting aside money each month to pay income tax and national insurance contributions. But if going self-employed in London in 2023 is something you are looking here to do, here are three of the best choices available.

Britons collectively spend literally billions on their pets per year. Pets are more than just animals, they become part of the family.

But the reality is that modern life is busy and trying to mix work and social lives with caring for pets is difficult. Which is why dog-walking businesses can be booming. The average cost per hour is around £15, so if you are – literally – prepared to put in the miles you could make more than the average wage.

It goes without saying you will need to genuinely love dogs, be fit, strong and healthy, and be ready to put in the long hours. You also need to remember you are running a business, so knowledge of all rules and regulations including collar use and clearing up mess are essential. It also helps to find a niche for your dog-walking business as it can be quite a crowded market.

The average starting pay for a self-employed carpenter is around £20 per hour, so there is definitely money to be made in this industry. Not least in London where the density and volume of housing means there is a high demand for construction and refurbishment. You will obviously need to be prepared. You’ll need a vehicle to get around from house to house, safety equipment and, naturally, you will need a quality set of carpenter’s tools.

Just like with dog walking, this is a busy market but by being prepared and putting in the hard hours you can definitely make a success in the business of carpentry.

Are you someone who is empathetic? Do you have a keen ear when friends and loved ones are discussing their problems?  Moreover, do you find that at parties, dinners, and other social events you are often the one doling out advice to others?Well, if the above sounds like you then becoming a life or career coach might be the ideal self-employed route for you to take.

There are qualifications to obtain before you ponder this path, but once you have done so you will have one-to-ones with clients to talk them through their tough situations and find workable solutions. It’s time to make money from your good heart.