The 20-year-old probably would have left this summer if Julian Nagelsmann was still in charge. Nagelsmann never got the best out of Gravenberch and got frustrated at times by his lack of defensive discipline. One of Tuchel’s first tasks was to speak to Gravenberch and make it clear he had a clean slate. For now, Bayern will oppose any sale, but there’s no doubt the player himself is open to options.

The same can be said about Levi Colwill in some respects. I understand Chelsea are currently categorical. They will bring him back from Brighton and won’t sell or loan out next season. They also have an option to extend Colwill’s contract by an extra year, until 2026, if he plays a set number of games. That makes it hard for suitors unless the player really drives his way out. Chelsea simply aren’t thinking about a sale. They view Colwill as an elite-level centre back who they want to play for the club for many years to come.

Liverpool do want a centre-back, though. Frankfurt’s Evan Ndicka (who is available on a free with several clubs looking, including Jose Mourinho’s Roma), Napoli’s Kim Min-jae (who has a release clause active for 15 days this summer) and Josko Gvardiol have all been considered to name but three.

With the obvious exception of Leipzig’s Gvardiol, who will command a fee of at least £80-85m, Liverpool could probably get 3-4 of the above players for the same outlay as Bellingham with all costs considered. That’s ultimately why they have decided to exit the race for the Dortmund star.

Amadou Onana is a name to watch this summer even though he’s only been at Everton since last summer.

“I see myself, God willing, at one of the biggest clubs,” he told So Foot recently. “I remember being amazed by the public at Stamford Bridge [when playing for Lille].”

Chelsea and Arsenal both considered Onana in January but it was clear he didn’t want to move mid-season. As with Jordan Pickford, it’s going to be difficult for the Toffees to keep hold of Onana if they go down.

Everton also really need more outgoings due to their financial situation, even after the £45m sale of Anthony Gordon to Newcastle. Farhad Moshiri continues to seek investment, with US firm 777 Partners the latest to show interest. It’s tricky, though, since suitors can pitch to players now and offer something stable. Everton, on the other hand, must wait and see what league they are in first. Both investors and players are unlikely to commit to anything now until they know whether Everton have secured their Premier League status. Even with Pickford, who did sign a new deal recently, there is an understanding (if not an actual clause) he can leave if Everton get relegated.

The Toffees paid £33m for Onana to Lille last summer and given his form may be able to get £60m+ for him if they sell. From what I am told Arsenal and Chelsea have other priorities. Both want West Ham’s Declan Rice, with Arsenal frontrunners right now. But more broadly both clubs want a defensive midfielder, as do Newcastle. Atletico Madrid could be one to watch as well. Onana’s Belgium teammate Axel Witsel has been full of praise for Onana, but given dream is to play in the Premier League it might be hard for a non-English suitor to prize him away after an impressive first season at Goodison Park.

Marcel Sabitzer has impressed at Manchester United since joining on loan from Bayern. He scored both goals in the 2-2 Europa League quarter-final draw with Sevilla.

Erik ten Hag would love to keep the Austrian and in doing so strengthen his midfield, even though his number one priority is to land a traditional forward, with Harry Kane and Victor Osimhen two names on at this stage quite a ‘longlist’ of strikers.

A lot of how Manchester United move, and with how much financial muscle, will depend on securing Champions League football, which they are on course to do, and whether a new outright owner comes in. The April 28 final-offer deadline is key to understanding the Glazers true intentions.

Bayern are happy to let Sabitzer leave but having seen his form at Old Trafford expect around £25m. Manchester United see this as too high for the 29-year-old, but he’s under contract at Bayern until 2025 which allows Bayern to be a bit more bullish with negotiations.

There is perhaps a bit of gamesmanship at play. Sabitzer was struggling for minutes at Bayern prior to his loan and now suddenly the German champions want almost twice what they paid Leipzig for him in 2021.

Sabitzer’s agent Roger Wittmann has made it clear his client is happy in Manchester. There is a willingness to make the move permanent, so it’s really going to hinge on finances. From what I understand Manchester United don’t want to overpay, especially with other targets requiring allocated budget, but Sabitzer is nonetheless a player they’d love to keep. The next step is Manchester United understanding whether the price for Sabitzer will come down. But Tuchel’s arrival hasn’t  prevented or complicated a transfer. It will just come down to price.