on The Best Original Streaming Shows Of The Last Few Yearson The Best Newer TV Shows The Whole Family Can Enjoy

Vote up the animated crossovers you can't believe are real. As a kid, there was nothing better than turning on the TV and watching some cartoons. Whether on Saturday mornings or after school, it was always exciting to jump into a new adventure with your favorite characters.With so many animated worlds out there, kids would always have dream crossovers they'd want to happen. With certain properties, crossovers were almost certain. In some instances, however, animated crossovers take place that confuse most people watching as it happens. Some kids were called a liar in school for mentioning the wild collaborations that took place on their TV screens. Even as adults, some people might not believe the magic that took place involving those colorful characters. These crossovers brought excitement and raised eyebrows to those who watched them.Most people already know about The X-Files cameo in a 1997 episode of The Simpsons, but years before crossing over into Springfield, Mulder and Scully paid another Fox animated show a visit. In the 1995 episode of Eek The Cat! titled “Eek Space 9,” the two X-Files characters get their office destroyed by a spaceship. Much like on The Simpsons, David Duchovny and Gillian Anderson voice their respective characters.Jim Carrey's Characters Met On Both 'Ace Ventura Pet Detective' And 'The Mask'Two of Jim Carrey's most recognizable characters teamed up without Carrey's involvement. Ace Ventura appeared in The Mask's episode "The Aceman Cometh," which has The Mask calling for Ventura's aid in finding their dog Milo. In the Ace Ventura Pet Detective episode "Have Mask, Will Travel," Stanley Ipkiss travels to Ace's neck of the woods to retrieve their mask and join the detective on a space adventure.Hercules Joined Forces With Aladdin On 'Disney's Hercules: The Animated Series'Hercules and Aladdin are two of Disney's most beloved animated characters coming from the '90s. Both characters starred in successful films and earned their own animated TV spinoffs. In Disney's Hercules: The Animated Series, Hercules teams up with Aladdin in the season one episode “Hercules and the Arabian Night.” In the episode, the heroes team up to take down the duo of Jafar and Hades, who try to turn the protagonists against each other.Comic Book Guy Was Unimpressed By 'The Cleveland Brown Show'The Cleveland Show managed to get a surprise visit from one of The Simpsons' most outspoken characters. In the episode “Hot Cocoa Bang Bang,” Cleveland make his way to Comic Con to sell his new comic book Waderman. Unfortunately, he doesn't get much constructive feedback when Comic Book Guy shows up to check out the book. After glancing at a few pages, the character gives a dismissive, "Worst. Cameo. Ever.”The Cast Of 'Jessie' Helped Save New York On 'Ultimate Spider-Man'With Marvel's characters under the Disney XD animation banner in the 2010s, a crossover between the two companies was just a matter of time. In the underrated animated series Ultimate Spider-Man, the titular character ran into the cast of the Disney live-action series Jessie in the season three episode "Halloween Night at the Museum." The episode finds Spider-Man joining forces with Jessie Prescott to save Halloween from Morgan le Fay and Jack O'Lantern. This would be the first-ever crossover between a live-action Disney show and a Marvel property.Before embarking on their own spinoff show, Extreme Dinosaurs were first introduced in the cartoon series Street Sharks. Originally known as the Dino Vengers, the crew of prehistoric pummelers joined Street Sharks during its third and final season. During their time on the show, the Extreme Dinosaurs join forces with the Street Sharks to take down the villainous Raptors. Due to Street Sharks' third season arriving nearly a year-and-a-half following its second season, some kids assumed the show was cancelled at this point.