Fans of John Farnham are about to get a more intimate view of the life and struggles of the Australian music icon.

The authorised biopic John Farnham: Finding the Voice is set to tell the untold story of Farnham’s journey from humble beginnings to pop stardom.

WATCH THE VIDEO ABOVE: Trailer for John Farnham: Finding the Voice.

Stream the world's best reality, entertainment and true crime shows for free on 7Bravo on 7plus  >>

The film follows Farnham’s life from the quiet suburbs of Melbourne to ‘60s pop fame, through incredible highs and lows, and ultimately to record-breaking success as “Australia’s Voice”.

Farnham was 38 years old when Whispering Jack was released.

Nobody ever questioned that Farnham could sing - but the challenge to find his artistic voice and become Australia’s most trusted and beloved performer took half a lifetime.

Whispering Jack is still the highest-selling Australian album of all time, and this powerful documentary tracks the personal and public journey that has made Farnham Australia’s greatest and most beloved musical artist.

Sunrise’s entertainment reporter Peter Ford explained that Farnham and the family were not “hands-on in any way putting it together” but had trust in the filmmakers.

The announcement comes more than a week after the 73-year-old was rushed to hospital, months after undergoing major surgery to remove a cancerous tumour in his mouth.

His family has confirmed in a statement that he is being treated for a respiratory infection.

WATCH THE VIDEO BELOW: John Farnham back in hospital after new health scare.

“John has been receiving ongoing treatment, care and rehabilitation support over recent months from his medical team,” the family said in a statement on March 31.

Farnham’s wife Jill said he was continuing his recovery following his successful surgery in 2022.

“He’s always been a strong and determined person with everything he’s ever done and we are all so very proud of him,” she said.

“He’s responding well to the specialist care he’s receiving.”

The 73-year-old underwent marathon 12-hour surgery at a Melbourne hospital last August, to remove a cancerous growth in his mouth, prompting an outpouring of love from fans around the world.

The You’re The Voice singer only discovered the growth after his wife urged him to go to the doctor for a checkup.

“There is still a long road of recovery and healing ahead of us, but we know John is up for that task,” Jill Farnham said after the mammoth operation.”

Part of Farnham’s jaw had to be removed during the operation to remove the cancerous growth, meaning he also required some reconstructive surgery.

John Farnham: Finding the Voice is in cinemas on May 18.

For more engaging entertainment content, visit 7Life on Facebook.