Liverpool are desperate to shake up their midfield ranks, so much so that they have sacrificed signing Borussia Dortmund star Jude Bellingham in favour of acquiring more players. Alexis Mac Allister and Ryan Gravenberch are both being eyed, though bringing in the pair would also leave spare funds.

Brighton playmaker Mac Allister has impressed on the south coast and with Argentina, catching the eye of several top clubs. Reports have circulated that an offer in the region of £62million could test the Seagulls’ resolve, with a bid of £25m also expected to be enough to push Bayern to part ways with Gravenberch.

Given that it would have taken £130m to sign Bellingham, a previous objective, the Reds may then have £47m left to complete their spend on a new-look midfield. Express Sport takes a look at five stars who could fit the bill for the Anfield outfit…

Valued at £39.5m by Transfermarkt, Liverpool could finally secure the signature of Wolves star Matheus Nunes at the end of the season. They admired the Portugal international prior to his move to Molineux and is still reportedly a target in Merseyside, and would not come at a ludicrous cost compared to other Premier League-proven stars.

Liverpool look starved of leadership and passion in the centre of the park, and they could reignite their interest in Atletico Madrid star Rodrigo De Paul. The Argentina international reportedly was in talks to join the club when at Udinese previously, and the Reds may not waste another opportunity to sign the playmaker – especially given that he linked up well with Mac Allister at the World Cup.

Although it will take slightly more than his £28m valuation to sign the playmaker, Liverpool have made it no secret that they are interested in Chelsea star Conor Gallagher. The England international is surplus to requirements at Stamford Bridge and securing his signature could also deal a hammer blow to fellow top four contenders Newcastle – who are also keen on the former Crystal Palace loanee.

If Liverpool opts for the opportunistic approach, they could be tempted to raid Valencia of star midfielder Yunus Musah whilst they are on the back of a relegation battle. The American international has struggled in the La Liga this season but the potential is clear to see, with his versatility also providing Jurgen Klopp with several options for just £19.4m.

RB Leipzig star Amadou Haidara has impressed in the Bundesliga this season and could be an option that is slipping under the radar. The Mali international is valued at £15m, which could look a steal in today’s market. Brighton were also linked with the 25-year-old previously and Liverpool acquiring his services could prevent them from selling Moises Caicedo to one of their title rivals, with Chelsea and Arsenal circling.