A group of fishermen are being hailed as heroes after they tackled a man suspected of throwing an explosive device at Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida. Mr Kishida was rushed to safety on Saturday after a small bomb landed a few feet from him and exploded nearly a minute after he had taken cover. He was  in the city of Wakayama to speak at a campaign rally.Among the first to pounce on the suspect, who has been identified as 24-year-old Ryuji Kimura, were fishermen, including Tsutomu Konishi.As the object was hurled into the crowd, one security officer attempted to bat it away with his bullet proof case. The fishermen then swarmed the suspect with one grabbing his neck from behind, another pushing his head down and Mr Konishi latching onto his leg.

Footage of yesterday's assassination attempt on #Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida in Wakayama City. pic.twitter.com/Pd7ydyw3v0— NEXTA (@nexta_tv) April 16, 2023

They were holding the man as police officers pulled him to the ground.“I never thought a crime like this would ever happen in my hometown, which is a rather small fishing area," he said.“I'm still shocked and stunned," he said.The attack, which happened shortly before midday, sparked panic among visitors to the rally, with police and security officials rushing to bundle the suspect and drag him away. Some on social media have questioned whether the fishermen were in fact plainclothes police officers.

The suspect, centre, is tackled by members of the crowd and police

It’s not clear whether the metal tube-like explosive retrieved from the scene was a smoke bomb or pipe bomb, or how many the suspect possessed. Police sent a special counter-explosives team to the suspect's home in Hyogo prefecture to search for evidence of bomb-making.People caught up in the chaos described moments of panic. “I ran frantically, and then, 10 or so seconds later, there was a loud sound and my kid started crying. I was stunned, my heart is still beating fast,” one woman told NHK.

The attack comes less than a year after the assassination of former prime minister Shinzo Abe, which traumatised the country and forced a security shake-up for public officials.Senior members of the fishing community say they and police had fully prepared to welcome the prime minister on his first visit to the area, but some say in the wake of Abe’s death, security should have been tighter.