In 2017, I gave a TEDx talk on celebrating the disabled body. At the time, having suffered for half a lifetime from multiple sclerosis and quadriplegia, I thought I had experienced enough to settle into my imperfect body and even find happiness within it. I was truly proud of having a disability, of having found peace and even pride in that identity. From my wheelchair, I delivered my talk with impassioned joy in the hope that others — regardless of disability status — would join me in celebrating the gift of our bodies, disabled or not.

“By embracing the imperfect body, you have to celebrate disease and disability and illness,” I said. “Because each and every one of us will have disease and illness and disability in our lifetime.”

But five years later, as the losses have continued and cut even more deeply, I know that I would not give that upbeat, lighthearted speech today. The word “celebrate” is not the word I would use to describe my relationship with my body. If there is a word, I haven’t been able to find it. But I have discovered a place where I see it reflected: the scorched earth of California’s fire-ravaged Trinity Mountains.

About 200 miles north of San Francisco, my family and I have gone on vacation to these mountains every summer since my kids were born, and our most recent trip was shortly after a fire had raged through the area the previous summer. The majesty of this forest where I spent so much time collecting memories and bathing in serenity was altered nearly beyond recognition. The fire had licked the edges of the trees and left its mark mere feet from where I was sitting on the porch of our cabin.

There was so much loss and devastation, and yet, sprouts of new growth arose from the blackened fallout. This was the first time I’d seen the impact of fire close up, so close that I could smell the remaining ashes. I found myself contemplating the scarred ground, the transformation of the forest and my altered view of this terrain. The devastated landscape seemed to express my journey with chronic illness.

Like the fires that are increasing in area and intensity each year, the progressive and cumulative damage from MS is not necessarily surprising, but nonetheless, it is frightening. It is seemingly unstoppable, just like these ever more frequent and petrifying flames. I am in a perpetual state of awareness about the inescapable impermanence of everything, including my mind and body.

But this is not how I used to think about my disease. When I gave my TEDx talk, I thought I knew what I could lose, having been forced by the disease to reinvent myself so much. Over the course of my MS, I transitioned from serving as a public interest lawyer to becoming an artist.  My paintings, etchings and embroidery, characterized by bold and vibrant colors, transformed my MRIs into images that conveyed my humanity and the complexity of my journey with chronic illness. When I lost the use of my hands and could no longer hold a paintbrush, I had to reimagine my life’s purpose again.  But I did not imagine that MS would take anything more from me.

At the time of my talk, I had yet to realize that I would just keep losing more and more. But that is what’s happened.

Today, my diminished capacity to speak audibly means my voice s­­ounds weak. Syllables fall off and speaking can be exhausting. I also experience episodes of aphasia, moments when I lose the ability to understand certain nuances of language. I feel myself forever groping for an elusive word. I sometimes lose certain subtleties of conversation or struggle to reliably express what I am thinking and feeling. That is a special kind of agony for me — a former lawyer who fought her every battle using words. Even now, my collaborator Lucia Graves is helping to string together the beads of my ideas into these sentences and paragraphs. My newest adventure is sleeping with a ventilator because MS is weakening my diaphragm and diminishing my capacity to breathe.

When every unwelcome symptom of my disease first appeared, I assumed they would be temporary losses, and I always found ways to deal with them. But I know now that MS means consistent phases of loss. It was just that they happened so slowly that I was able to adjust. I was coping and upbeat and full of gratitude because I thought I had hit “rock bottom” with the loss of arms and legs. Now, I am scared that I won’t be able to cope if I progress much more. I won’t be able to physically, sure, but emotionally even more so. I worry that I won’t be able to maintain any sort of connection with anyone if I lose my ability to speak.

That’s what I was thinking about on the porch of our cabin in the Trinity Mountains, and about how, for me, positivity and fear rarely go hand-in-hand. It’s far more difficult to celebrate now, more difficult than I ever imagined. When my life is getting scarier, when fire has surrounded me and it’s closing in, I’m not going to have a party.

Guest opinions in  are produced by writers with expertise, personal experience or original insights on a subject of interest to our readers. Their  the opinion of The Chronicle editorial board, which is committed to providing a diversity of ideas to our readership.

Read more about our transparency and ethics policies

I know MS is always going to be with me, and so I’m working to define what my relationship to it truly is. Is multiple sclerosis a battleground for me? Is it a friend? Is it my enemy? Is it both? And if I am fighting it, is it because I hate it?  One thing is for certain: I can’t control it.

I want to honor myself and that means I have to honor all of me, including the disease that continues to invade every part of my being. I’ve never wanted to be an “MS warrior.” Despite my fear of what the future may hold, I’ve developed a practice of thanking the parts of my body that still allow me to lead a life full of joy.

Over the decades I’ve borne the scorch of so many new symptoms. Life is persistent and dynamic, and the seedlings pushing up through the char feel like a metaphor for what my life has now become: cycles of transformation, endings and beginnings, coming bit by tiny bit or sometimes in a torrent, like so many cyclical bouts and phases of my progressing disease.  Each day presents a new challenge, and each day I work to embrace the challenge.

I long to be on the porch in the mountains with the sound of the rustling trees and the solitude of the remaining forest as my meditation, where I manage to find a way back home to my sense of self, my ambitions and inherent joy for life.

All I know now is that in this cycle there is a place for optimism and curiosity. And that is enough for me.