Read Michelle Obama’s memoir, ‘Becoming,’ which taught much about hard work and the journey to success. This

book was eye-opening and inspiring, giving a glimpse into how much work it takes to become successful and all the struggles along the way. It is amazing how she went from living in a little Chicago apartment to studying at Princeton and Harvard and becoming the First Lady.

The book is divided into three categories, each portraying different stages of her life: Becoming Me, Becoming Us, and Becoming More.

Becoming Me; gave insight into Michelle Obama’s past and her backstory. Reading about Michelle’s childhood and her development from childhood to adulthood was enjoyable. Even in her early days, it is seen a lot of determination and perfectionism. Often it was wanted to be her friend due to her great attitude, personality, and charm.

Becoming Us; explores the next chapter of her life in university and her meeting with Barack Obama. In this section, Michelle described how she felt like an outsider since she was one of the few black students in the school. Luckily, she found good friendships and relations, including Barack Obama.

Finally, Becoming More; is about her life in politics and becoming the FLOTUS. In this bittersweet section, Michelle describes the struggles of being in the spotlight and having their voice be heard. She advises about dealing with criticism and how to be confident.

This book’s quote is favored: “If you do not get out there and define yourself, you will be quickly and inaccurately defined by others.”

Michelle wrote this book in such a compelling and engrossing way that he was rooting for the Obama family in all of his adventures. It was never known about all the sacrifices the family had to make even to have a chance at winning the election.

The book taught about hardships and success. There will always be an easy way out of hard work, but to succeed, we must push through our limits, no matter what others think.

Michelle Obama’s journey is inspiring to follow dreams and overcome difficulties. She never gives up and powers in any situation and is greatly admired.