Suffolk News has spoken to councillor hopefuls across the four main political parties and councils, to discover their policy priorities and expectations ahead of the May 4 elections.

First up is the Labour Party, which will send 132 candidates to the polls this year.

As the only Labour-controlled council at district or county level in Suffolk, Ipswich Borough Council’s Labour group is hoping for a repeat of the strong election results it gained last year – when 13 out of 16 wards went or stayed red.

Leader of the council, Cllr David Ellesmere, who will step down as councillor in May, said after Ipswich Labour Party launched its campaign on April 1: “Ipswich Labour Party members will be campaigning hard from now until the elections, delivering leaflets about Labour’s positive plans for Ipswich and speaking to residents to find out the issues that are concerning them.

“We are getting a very positive response on the doorstep – not only from people who support the good work Labour-run Ipswich Borough Council is doing, but from life-long Conservative voters who have had enough and are now considering voting differently for the first time.”

Cllr Ellesmere pointed out the local party’s plans to:

* Cut carbon emissions by continuing to invest in electric vehicles and building a new carbon neutral council depot.

Ipswich Borough Council joined the other districts and boroughs in Suffolk – except for East Suffolk Council – and increased the maximum local council tax reduction for struggling households to one hundred per cent from this month.

Cllr Ellesmere also decided in March to allocate £283,500 to pay for three police community support officers (PCSOs) for Ipswich’s town centre across the next two years.

There will be one Labour or Labour and Cooperative Party candidate in each of Ipswich’s 16 wards this year.

Its campaign launch at the beginning of April was held at the Golden Hind on Nacton Road, where speeches were made by Cllr Ellesmere, local party chair Cllr Bryony Rudkin and Labour’s national candidate for Ipswich Jack Abbott. This was combined with two canvassing sessions.

Seven Labour councillors currently hold spots on East Suffolk Council, while 45 hopefuls will go to the polls next month.

Leader of the Labour group in East Suffolk and representative for Kirkley and Pakefield, Cllr Peter Byatt, said: “We would like voters to look at what we are promising for them and their families, knowing that we will always listen to them and be on their side.

“Our small group of councillors has been an effective and respected opposition.

“We have worked alongside and supported the Conservative administration in a professional and competent manner, when policies and projects have been to the advantage of the people of East Suffolk.

“We have also scrutinised to work of the administration, challenging and questioning practice at every level.”

Cllr Byatt described the “key issue” on the doorsteps as cost-of-living increases, explaining: “We know that this is something that the government has overall responsibility, but we know that East Suffolk can help ease pressure on struggling residents – hence our pledge to freeze council tax.”

Alongside this council tax freeze, the local party pledges to:

* Invest more in our towns and villages, supporting local businesses, helping to create new jobs and bringing wealth into our community

* Lead on the environment by increasing solar on new build, insulating homes and providing more electrical vehicle charging points

* Campaign to improve all our NHS services, including greater access to community healthcare and dentistry

* Build more council homes and ensure high standards for private renters.

East Suffolk Labour Party launched its election campaign on April 7, with a group photo of candidates from the Waveney area and canvassing in north Lowestoft.

West Suffolk’s Labour group has four councillors – and a desire to get more of its 41 candidates into seats this time around.

Cllr Cliff Waterman said: “We look united, clear visioned, inclusive – and actually we are all of those things. The response on the doorsteps has been very positive. There is a real mood in the country that things are broken.

“People see the local election as a referendum on the government and they want change.”

Cllr Waterman also discussed Labour councillors’ request for drop-in dental clinics – which were provided by Dentaid last October.

He said: “With the problem of the lack of dentists in West Suffolk, we got on with making changes through Dentaid.

“The Conservative administration talked about it. I remember a meeting in which the Conservatives brought a thick document filled with things they had ‘considered', ‘discussed' and ‘planned'.

“But we did it, and I think it is a really good example of what Labour has been able to do.”

* Reduce the cost of leisure centres and introduce youth workers to promote alternative activities for young people

* Extend the recycling service to include home glass and food waste collection and rigorously enforce ‘clean air’ requirements

* Increase the number of new social and genuinely affordable homes, and ensure all landlords meet decent home standards

* Work with the NHS and other partners to ensure key health services such as dentistry and podiatry are available to all, regardless of ability to pay

* Tackle crime and anti-social behaviour by ensuring appropriate police and PCSO presence at all times.

Cllr Diane Hind, leader of the Labour group at West Suffolk, said: “I am very positive but not complacent.

“I am delighted with the team of candidates. They are an exceptional group of individuals who I know will serve their constituents well.”

The local party’s launch took place on April 8 and was linked up with a training day for candidates.

Labour’s Babergh group is “fighting for every single vote” with its 23 candidates, according to the council’s only current Labour member Cllr Alison Owen.

Cllr Owen, who is running for the Labour and Cooperative Party in Sudbury North East, explained: “We’ve never known such support on the doorstep before. There is such a mood for change and a significant number of ex-Tories are turning to Labour.

“Every Sudbury and Great Cornard seat could turn red, and there is strong support elsewhere in the district.”

The main messages picked out by Cllr Owen are keeping free short-term parking in Sudbury and Hadleigh “unlike the Greens” and protecting and enhancing Belle Vue Park as a green space “unlike the Tories”.

The local party launched its election campaign on April 1 by knocking on doors across Sudbury and Great Cornard, key area seats for May 4.

Mid Suffolk has no Labour councillors but Will Howman, one of the party’s seven candidates in this area, is “very excited about the change that I hope the May elections will bring”.

Mr Howman, who is contesting the Stow Thorney seat, continued: “It feels like there is great appetite for change not only nationally but locally as well.

“Our candidates’ main message is that it is time for a change in Mid Suffolk and that only Labour councillors can deliver that change.

“A key policy area is health and wellbeing. Labour will do everything possible to improve local facilities and ensure creative, recreational, sport and youth groups are able to access them more easily to encourage positive use of leisure time.”

Labour’s election campaign launches were held separately across Mid Suffolk’s different wards this month.