Nothing feels better than feeling confident and loving the skin that you’re in! Whether you’ve been wanting to change a certain feature, or you are looking to restore a more youthful appearance, you have options for safely and successfully bringing your goals to life.

At Synergy Plastic Surgery in Austin, Westlake, and Round Rock, TX, our team of board-certified plastic surgeons creates results that look natural and give you the confidence boost you have been dreaming of. For some, however, the thought of pain management after a surgical procedure can be daunting – and can even cause them to avoid surgery all together. Here we will discuss the ins and outs of pain management prior to and after surgery!

Synergy Plastic Surgery offers patients a long-lasting, non-opioid pain medication called EXPAREL® for several procedures, including breast augmentation and tummy tuck surgery. What makes EXPAREL® especially significant for pain relief is the fact that it can relieve pain for up to 72 hours after surgery, which is typically the most painful time for patients.

This is because, generally, postoperative pain is at its peak during the first two days after surgery. However, thanks to EXPAREL®, the reduction of this pain allows patients to enter the week following surgery with significantly less pain, as well as a reduced need for other pain medication.

The EXPAREL® works as a nerve block, and is utilized on both the muscle as well as the surrounding soft tissue in order to provide a smooth, comfortable transition for up to three days post-op. Furthermore, pain relief provided by EXPAREL® leads to a decreased need for pain medication such as opioids, which in turn saves patients from the discomfort commonly caused by them such as gastrointestinal issues and constipation, for example.

At Synergy Plastic Surgery, some of the procedures performed by our board-certified plastic surgeons require patients to wear compression garments immediately after surgery. Often, these are chosen and introduced to you at the time of your pre-operative appointment, where our advanced medical staff will explain to you the type of garment you will wear, as well as the reasoning behind it.

Compression garments can aid in the reduction of swelling, provide support to the area that was operated on as well as to the core of the body, and even improve comfort thanks to the pressure they provide after surgery.

Cold or heat therapy can prove highly beneficial for treating pain after surgery, depending on what your surgeon recommends. Ice is commonly used to help relieve pain and discomfort after surgery, while heat therapy may aid in relaxing muscle aches or spasms.

It is important to note that both methods must be used with caution, and always with the approval of your plastic surgeon. This is since the area of concern that was operated on is normally somewhat numb after surgery. This reduced sensation can make it hard for a patient to judge how hot or cold something is against their skin. A severe burn or frostbite would greatly disrupt your healing process after surgery.

It is of utmost importance that you always follow the post-op guidelines provided by your surgeon and medical team. Some tips to utilize heat or cold therapy safely and efficiently include utilizing a timer during heat or cold therapy, as well as testing the temperature prior to utilizing the heat or cold pack.

Even though getting up and moving after surgery may sound like the last thing you should do after a surgical procedure, it is imperative for your safe and speedy recovery. At Synergy Plastic Surgery, your safety is vital. For this reason, our board-certified surgeons monitor your progress consistently, asking that you come in for your follow ups consistently.

During your follow up appointments, your surgeon can gauge how soon you can safely get back to regular activity. Depending on what type of procedure you had, this can include walking, talking, drinking, and eating. This regular activity will encourage the blood flow to the areas of incision, which will in turn aid in the reduction of swelling, while heightening lymphatic drainage, as well as supplying your body with oxygen and vital nutrients to your body after surgery.

Please note: It is vital that you listen to your body and your surgeon, and never push yourself too far! Our advanced medical staff will always provide you with precise guidelines on what movements you must avoid, how much activity is recommended, and when you can carry them out. If you are unsure on if you are cleared to resume a certain activity, our medical staff is continually on call and available to always answer your questions!

At the time of your complimentary consultation, our board-certified plastic surgeons make sure to cover all the ins and outs of your surgical journey. This will always include setting expectations for patients preoperatively.

Our surgeons advise those seeking a surgical procedure that they should expect to have some pain or discomfort. While no patient will ever have to endure severe pain, having a small amount of pain is okay. By realistically advising our patients of what to expect post operatively, our surgeons can ensure that you are well informed and will experience no surprises after your procedure!

This means that at Synergy Plastic Surgery, we do our best to prepare our patients for every aspect of their surgical procedure, including your pain management plan! Your qualified plastic surgeon will always discuss pain control with you before your operation and ensure that a course of action is in place ahead of time.

If you have been considering a surgical procedure but are reluctant to move forward due to concerns with pain management, do not hesitate to meet with one of our board-certified plastic surgeons for a complimentary consultation! Together, we can create a customized plan that is tailored to your unique medical history, pain tolerance, and lifestyle. Call (512) 244-1444, or request a complimentary consultation online, to meet with one of Synergy Plastic Surgery’s board-certified plastic surgeons and unlock your personalized Synergy Experience today!