We haven't been able to get enough of the latest season of Netflix’s Love Is Blind. And who would have thought that a contestant, who originally went home, would end up getting engaged and married by the end?

Well, that’s exactly what happened with Bliss, after Zack originally chose to propose to Irina – who it’s safe to say, wasn't a good fit for him – only to end up with Bliss in the end.

We saw Zack debate who he had a stronger connection with in the pods but it turned out that everything worked out exactly as it should have.

But did Zack and Bliss break the show rules by getting engaged after the pods? Well, Love Is Blind’s creator Chris Coelen has spoken out about the interesting turn in events for the couple.

Speaking to Variety, Chris revealed, “Zack obviously had a genuine, emotional connection with Bliss. When people have no remaining option in the pods, we ask them to leave.” Which is how Bliss ended up heading home.

“I always go back and speak to people who are leaving. I could feel the emotion in Bliss' body like it was so palpable. It was so real, and she genuinely thought that this was her person that she was going to spend her life [with]. It was devastating.”

“Zack obviously felt, very soon after meeting Irina, that he had made the wrong choice," Chris confirms.

Even though Chris doesn’t say for definite whether Zack and Bliss broke the rules, he and the Love is Blind team did help play cupid for them.

"Eventually, [Zack] said he really wanted to get in touch with Bliss. They don't have each other's contact information. So, he asked the producing team in Mexico if he could get in touch with her," Chris adds.

After Zack confessed that he "should have asked her" to marry him, Chris and the team couldn’t resist stepping in to help.

"So when he says he screwed up and wants to marry her, that's an incredible love story."

There’s no doubt that the drama surrounding Zack and Bliss’s eventual getting together will be discussed on the reunion episode, which is set to air live early tomorrow morning (17th April) at 1am here in the UK. And we can’t wait to see what is said.

Love Is Blind season four is available to stream on Netflix.