This highly successful family-owned and operated fruit, produce and grocery business is being offered for sale for the first time since it was established in 1992, and it is fully managed.

Perfectly positioned within the CBD of a major regional city in NSW, with no discernible competition. Primed and ready for a new operator to continue to capitalise on the work already done and harness the amazing potential this business has to offer.

The business model has been built on a reputation of offering premium quality fresh produce and combining this with outstanding service and a warm, family environment and always wanting to provide great value for all of their customers.

The business has shown substantial growth over recent years and with the expansion into a larger variety of grocery items sales are averaging $148k/week. This diversity is seeing a larger number of retail customers shopping more regularly and increasing their spend per visit as well. The retail section has been recently modernised with an abundance of shelving and refrigerated display now available along with cutting edge register and scale POS systems and loads of trolley's for shopper convenience.

The wholesale component of the business has been the cornerstone for years and this has also experienced solid growth patterns, this has also been streamlined with most ordering completed online. With a full wholesale team dedicated to the service and supply of this customer base. With an abundance of walk in cool room space, forklifts, packaging and 4 delivery vans, the wholesale team are always on the go.

There is an extensive list of high quality and modern plant and equipment that is included with the sale and will all be available unincumbered at settlement.

Staff No

The business is currently run by a manager and a team of full-time, part-time, and casual staff.

Trading Times

6 days - Mon - Fri 8.30 a.m. to 6 p.m. 8.30am - 2pm on Saturday

Size of Premises

Extensively equipped premises with easy access to completely cater for wholesale and retail supply including cool rooms, staff amenities, admin space, plenty of storage, refrigerated and static display shelving.

Opportunity

The opportunity here is to capitalize on the location and solid customer base and with an enthusiastic approach, expand on current offerings and the operating hours and days and seek out further market opportunities. Expand the product range to provide a further point of difference in the area. The astute buyer will also look to minimise controllable expenditure and review all key areas.