Worcestershire custom carbon manufacturer Filament spruces its existing track bike with longer dropouts and a wider fork

Custom carbon specialist Filament has released the latest iteration of its track bike, claiming improved aerodynamics and practicality. In a world still reeling from the likes of Team GB’s £15,500 Hope frameset, West Midlands-based Filament occupies a niche place in the market with its high-end tailored offering, with track staples such as the Dolan DF4 frameset coming in at a much cheaper £1,499.

Filament says it brings something new to the market, however, with a PMI – polymethacrylimide – foam core at the heart of its track bike. The brand says this supports the carbon exoskeleton, making the complete frame stiffer and more durable in comparison to those with hollow tubes.

Professional track racing is an accident-heavy sport and Filament says it wanted to design a frame that could withstand not only the rigours of hard riding and extensive travelling, but of crashing too.

Best single-speed bikes 2023: Fixed gear and single-speed bikes from £250

At UCI Track Champions League, two mechanics turn spanners at the centre of the action

Hope Team GB track bike available now starting at £15,550

A key update for the newest Filament track bike is at the fork. The blades have been spaced further apart, which the brand says reduces the aerodynamic drag produced as the spokes displace air towards the fork legs. The fork cross-section is 80mm by 13mm, which Filament says was the ideal balance of minimal aerodynamic interference and necessary stiffness.

The frame uses a BB386 EVO bottom bracket, which sets the bearings further apart than a traditional BB30/PF30 setup. Filament says it chose this BB standard to increase the life of the bearings, as it lowers torsional loads, in a bid to make a bike that can withstand the test of time.

The bottom bracket has an internal diameter of 46mm and a shell width of 86.5mm, with a carbon sleeve for press-fit bottom brackets. If riders wish to use a traditional BSA threaded bottom bracket, a titanium sleeve can be fitted as part of the build.

The latest model also features longer dropouts than on the previous version. Longer dropouts allow for a wider range of gear combinations to be used, without the need to change chain length, which is a useful feature as track riders change their gearing frequently to suit different events.

The bike uses a 27.2mm rounded seatpost, a choice which Filament says it made to help future-proof the frame and trades a minimal aero penalty for easier adjustment and lower clamping torque.

The Filament frameset has no paint or lacquer, favouring instead a polished epoxy finish, which the brand says is less prone to scratching or chipping than other options.

For more information, go to Filament

Pro Log: Amstel Gold Race draft controversy, Lizzie Deignan returns to racing early, Suez partners with Tour de France Femmes, British Cycling appoint new CEO

What is a road bike? Every part explained in simple terms

Tech writer Charlotte Head has brought her passion for all things tech across from her background as a professional bicycle mechanic, and has freelanced for CyclingNews and offroad.cc.

With a focus on road, track and gravel, Charlotte also enjoys keeping up with the pro MTB scene, and any new quirky innovations across all disciplines.

In her spare time, she can be found whizzing round and round in circles at the nearest velodrome or buried in completely tasteless thriller novel. She also has a huge, very lovable, dog.

Instagram: @charl_m_h

Height: 168cm

Copyright © Diamond Publishing 2023. All rights reserved.

Metropolis International Group Limited, 10th Floor, Southern House, Wellesley Grove, Croydon, CR0 1XG. Registered in England. Company No. 04611236

To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions.

The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.

The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.

The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.

The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.

The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.