If you are on the hunt for the best natural face wash for men that won’t dry your complexion, you’ve got covered! For many, weather changes come bearing the unsolicited gifts of excess sebum, dryness, irritation, and a whole new list of sensitivities.

Even if your skin is somehow resistant to all outside factors, chances are that you are still in desperate need of a chemical-free face wash to effectively remove dirt, oil, and other unwanted debris. Now, if you crave a deeper clean with a side of gentle exfoliation, it would be a better idea to turn to an organic exfoliating face wash.

However, while making formulas can easily kick germs and debris out of our pores for good, they let in another uninvited guest –chemicals. That’s right! Several chemicals are commonly found in face washes that can potentially be harmful to the skin or the environment. Parabens, Sulfates, Phthalates, Triclosan, the list goes on and on.

Organic face wash for men, on the other hand, harvest the powers of all-natural extracts to cleanse, nourish and hydrate the skin. What’s more, organic skincare brands have a strong commitment to sustainability making them a fantastic choice for those who want to take care of their skin while also being mindful of the impact they have on the planet.

Whether you are ready to invest in an organic exfoliating face wash for men or simply looking for a natural face wash gel that’ll actually get you excited to wash up at night, here are our top picks.

If you are looking for an organic daily facial cleanser that’s equal parts gentle on the skin, effective and sustainable, then you have to check out Seed Phytonutrients’ facial cleanser. Free from sulfates, harsh chemicals, and exfoliants, the formula promises to offer a lightweight lather that’ll leave your complexion refreshingly clean and hydrated every single day.

As for the scent, it’s very clean and citrusy with top notes of Lime and lemon essential oils. The brand uses aluminum to package their best-selling skincare products in the most sustainable way possible on top of opting for curbside-recyclable packaging materials as much as possible.

Brickell’s best natural face wash for men is expertly formulated to deeply cleanses the skin of dirt, oil, and impurities to help prevent breakouts and acne by removing excess oil and unclogging pores. Thanks to the purifying and detoxifying abilities of activated charcoal, this organic daily facial cleanser nourishes and hydrates the skin in the most gentle way possible.

Plus, the stellar blend of Aloe Vera, Jojoba oil, and Olive oil soothes and hydrates the complexion, while also reducing inflammation and redness without leaving a greasy residue. Of course, Brickell’s ingredients are all sourced from sustainable and ethical suppliers only!

Ursa Major’s organic exfoliating face wash for men cleanses, exfoliates, and brightens the complexion by removing dirt, oil, and impurities without stripping the skin of its natural oils. Unlike most chemical-packed formulas, this natural face wash for men is specifically formulated to be gentle, and non-drying which makes it ideal for folks with super-sensitive skin.

What’s more, the ingredients list includes some of the most skin-loving additions. The natural AHA/BHA fruit acids and rice seeds, for example, exfoliates the skin without causing any redness; Vitamin C and Aloe Vera aim to help brighten and even out the skin tone; Chamomile and Green Tea make sure to soothe and hydrate the skin – yes, they’ve thought of everything!

What we particularly love about this organic daily facial cleanser is the addition of Willow Bark –a natural source of salicylic acid, which helps to unclog pores and prevent breakouts.

Backed up by 4,000+ raving reviews, Rugged & Dapper’s premium natural face wash for men is formulated without synthetic fragrances, colorants, or harsh chemicals. The products aim to help balance and tone the skin with sustainably-sourced ingredients such as Witch Hazel, Aloe Vera, and Vitamin E. Jojoba Beads and Willow Bark are added to act as gentle exfoliators.

Then, we have Shea Butter and Sunflower Oil–two of the most well-known organic “hydrators” that nourish the skin after each and every use. Whether you’re on the hunt for a men’s face wash for oily skin, or for a chemical-free face wash for combination, sensitive, dry, or normal, Rugged & Dapper has you covered.

Bulldog Skincare’s super-affordable, natural face wash for men promises to cleanse the skin of dirt, oil, and impurities without drying it out! It’s a non-irritating, gentle formula that is suitable for daily use and skin types, including sensitive skin. What’s more, this organic daily facial cleanser is chock full of highly moisturizing ingredients that also balance and tone the complexion. Think Aloe Vera, Green Tea, and Essential oils. But that’s not all –Bulldog Skincare’s skincare and grooming products are also environmentally conscious in addition to them being completely vegan.

If natural face wash gel for men options aren’t your cup of tea, we’d highly suggest giving Dr. Bronner’s Castile Bar Soap a try. Just like their organic bodywash soaps, this formula is completely free of chemicals and synthetic fragrances. On the contrary, it’s made with organic and fair trade ingredients like Coconut Oil, olive oil, and Hemp Oil. The latter is rich in omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids, which help to nourish and strengthen the skin.

Coconut oil is a natural moisturizer that helps to hydrate and nourish the skin while providing a rich lather. Last, but not least, olive oil is rich in antioxidants and fatty acids! This value pack includes 5 of their top-selling bar soaps in Almond, Unscented, Lavender, Peppermint, Citrus, and Rose scents.

Thrive’s natural face wash for men is vegan and made in the USA with skin-friendly, organic Ingredients. The natural face wash gel is specially formulated with clinically proven ingredients to avoid drying sensitive skin, help reduce irritation, and provide extra defense against skin stressors.

You can thank the three potent ingredients for that!

Costa Rican super-plant Fierrillo (unique to Thrive products) carries anti-oxidant and anti-irritation benefits; Tazman Pepper helps reduce irritation and redness, and Wakame Kelp works wonders on reinforcing the skin’s natural defenses against urban pollution and outdoor/adventure stressors. Additionally, let’s not forget that every Thrive order directly supports hard-working rural farmers.

Next up, Oars + Alps’ natural face wash for men with Activated Charcoal. The vegan and gluten-free formula is developed to fight blackheads and acne by dissolving dirt and exfoliating the skin. What makes this organic exfoliating face wash for men so effective? The antioxidant-rich Alpine Caribou Moss comes straight from northern Finland.

It’s a fantastic organic ingredient known for boosting elasticity and guarding against environmental stressors like pollution. On top of that, this organic face wash comes in a travel-friendly solid stick form – meaning it won’t spill in your bag.

Last, but not least, a two-in-one toner and natural face wash for men that removes deep-down dirt and oil for clear, smooth, shave-ready skin. Jack Black’s organic daily facial cleanser is a non-greasy, lightweight formula that is suitable for daily use. Additionally, it contains natural ingredients that help to nourish and protect the skin.

In addition to Aloe Vera and Chamomile Extract, the formula is infused with Sage Leaf Extract, which is a natural ingredient that helps to reduce inflammation and protect the skin from damage caused by environmental stressors. As for the Lavender Extract, it provides a refreshing scent and helps to soothe and calm the complexion. Plus, it is suitable for all skin types – including sensitive ones.

Freelance sustainability and fashion writer with an ongoing curiosity to explore new innovative technologies, and report on trends in “green” industries.