Skip to main content

What are you looking for?

The Humanitarian Project Coordinator is a core member of CARE USA's Humanitarian Affairs Team (HT) and the Resource Mobilization sub team. S/he is responsible for monitoring and completing tasks related to humanitarian project/ grant management, new business, technical capacity, and management and leadership to achieve CARE's objectives across the humanitarian portfolio. The Program Coordinator works in tandem with the Humanitarian Program Manager and in coordination with CARE's Business Development Unit on developing HT's portfolio of U. S Government grants (including but not limited to BHA, BPRM, and CDC). She/he develops new business and manages strategic grants and contracts (throughout the life cycle of the award) from restricted funding sources. In addition, the project coordinator manages knowledge management platforms keeping up to date and accurate award information and ensuring compliance with donor rules and regulations. The Program Coordinator reports to the Humanitarian Program Manager and she/he must have knowledge of project management, humanitarian programs, US Government emergency funding mechanisms, technical experience across a variety of sectors as well as strong organizational and communication skills.

Award Set Up, Grant Management, and Programmatic Oversight - The Program Coordinator provides the following day to day support to Country Directors and Country Office staff on humanitarian programs: Oversees CO’s adherence to grant/contract requirements and US Government regulations and provides advanced level grants and financial management services to the humanitarian portfolio. Provides effective and timely administration of donor agreements and sub-agreements through the award life cycle. Responsible for the initial preparation / review, negotiation, due diligence - including the USAID vetting process, monitoring and modifications of donor agreements.

USG New Business Development & Technical Strategy - The Program Coordinator contributes to the development of new business together with CARE’s Business Development unit on developing proposals for humanitarian funding from US Government Agencies ( BHA, BPRM, CDC).

Information Management: The PC uses contacts and regular conversations with donors and InterAction to gather intelligence in order to remain up to date on changes and developments in USG Regulations and Guidelines in order to advise/recommend tools and strategies to increase program performance and results.

Donor Relationship Management and Stewardship: Maintains regular communication with USG representatives; attend Interaction calls and stay up-to-date on their portfolio's conflicts and geographic areas supported. Serves as a resource to USAID on the current status of projects and happenings on the ground.

Experience or knowledge of overseas working environment in emergency situations.