“Stellenbosch University confirms that the person who urinated in the Neelsie Student Centre, of whom a video was posted on social media on Sunday afternoon, is not a student of the University, but a member of the public.

“Stellenbosch University confirms that the person who urinated in the Neelsie Student Centre, of whom a video was posted on social media on Sunday afternoon, is not a student of the University, but a member of the public.

A video of a man peeing in what appeared to be a mall has recently gone viral on social media. The video’s title implied that the individual was a student at Stellenbosch University, but the Western Cape-based institution has denied this.

“Stellenbosch University confirms that the person who urinated in the Neelsie Student Centre, of whom a video was posted on social media on Sunday afternoon, is not a student of the University, but a member of the public. The incident is being investigated,” the university said in response to the video on Twitter.

Another pissing Stellenbosch student; I wonder if he will be suspended as well? Or perhaps will his skin color save him?

The university was shaken by many urination scandals last year. In May, Theuns Du Toit was caught on camera urinating on the belongings of his Huis Marais flatmate, Babalo Ndwayana.

YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Julia Katong, Former Northern Cape Councillor Jailed For Corruption

Du Toit was suspended shortly after the incident, which made headlines and drew attention to the university. After a lengthy disciplinary process, he was found guilty of violating the university’s Disciplinary Code for Students.

Only months later, the Weekend Argus reported that in the early hours of Saturday morning, 22 October 2022, a first-year white student from Stellenbosch University discharged himself on the belongings of two black students, including their clothes. The assault allegedly occurred at the university’s men’s residence Eendrag.

“The boy (culprit) supposedly decided to leave on his own accord from the res and that’s why the house father didn’t suspend him,” a source is quoted as having told the publication.