Senior staff in Victorian Premier Daniel Andrews's government interfered and pressured public servants to ensure lucrative contracts were awarded to a key Labor Party ally without competitive tender, Victoria's anti-corruption watchdog has found.

The Independent Broad-based Anti-corruption Commission (IBAC) has slammed the premier, health ministers and the public service for the awarding of a contract in 2018 to the Health Workers Union (HWU) to deliver specialist training to deal with occupational violence.

"The union was given privileged access and favourable treatment,'' IBAC's Operation Daintree found.

"The combined effect of these failings and unethical conduct resulted in a contract that should not have been entered into with the union and an outcome which was not in the public interest."

During her interview with investigators, former health minister Jenny Mikakos told IBAC "it appeared the contract had only been entered into to placate [HWU secretary Diana] Asmar during the election period and looked like a 'way … of injecting funds into the HWU.'"

But IBAC's report, tabled in state parliament on Wednesday morning, stopped short of findings of corrupt conduct, instead saying Mr Andrews should be accountable to parliament for the behaviour of his staff.

"[Operation Daintree] did however reveal a range of concerning conduct and omissions in breach of the public duties and ethical obligations of ministers and ministerial advisors,'' the report said.

The key concern for the anti-corruption commission was the behaviour of advisers working for Mr Andrews and former health ministers Jill Hennessy and Jenny Mikakos. Both women have since left parliament.

The report found ministerial advisors bypassed normal protocols in dealing with the public service to ensure the contract was awarded and then upheld.

There was also constant communication between union secretary Diana Asmar and ministerial advisors about the project, with pressure put on the department to ensure it occurred.

To tackle this, IBAC has made 17 recommendations to ensure staff and ministerial codes of conduct are less opaque, and to crack down on advisors pressuring public servants.

IBAC also suggests allowing parliamentary committees to call advisers to ministers, which is currently not allowed.

The report is also critical of some public servants for not providing frank and fearless advice.

"The evidence from Operation Daintree provides a powerful example of the apparent increase in the pliability of the public service,'' IBAC said.

In 2018, the HWU made an unsolicited proposal to the Andrews government to develop a training program to addresses occupational violence and harassment.

The government awarded a $1.2-million contract to the union to provide the training to 575 frontline health workers just hours before it went into caretaker mode ahead of the November 2018 state election.

The training program was delivered by a new entity called the Health Education Federation (HEF), which was set up by the HWU.

It had no experience and there was no competitive tender process.

A week earlier, the premier made an election promise for another $2.2 million to train 1,000 frontline health workers in partnership with the HWU.

It followed a meeting between Ms Asmar and the premier just weeks before.

Mr Andrews was interviewed in secret as part of Operation Daintree, as IBAC went to court to try and stop The Age newspaper from disclosing details of the probe during last year's state election.

IBAC said the premier "had no recollection of what he discussed with Ms Asmar, no recollection of any discussion with his advisors that led to this announcement [election promise] and no awareness that they and the Minister for Health's advisor had discussed a detailed proposal".

"After the Premier realised that his recollection of what he announced was faulty he left open the possibility that he may have made a commitment to Ms Asmar but remained quite uncertain that what he announced amounted to a commitment,'' the report said.

IBAC found that a ministerial advisor in Ms Hennessy's office "exerted pressure" on the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) to award the contract.

It also found the decision by DHHS to contract the HEF "without undertaking a competitive procurement process was driven by a belief of senior staff in that department that that was the minister's and government's preference, and by ongoing pressure from the ministerial advisor and secretary of the union".

Mr Andrews, Ms Hennessy and Ms Mikakos all said, at times, that they were unaware of the specific activities of their staff.

"It would be a matter for parliament to consider whether the conduct of his advisor in this case was sufficiently serious for the Premier to be held personally responsible for it, on the basis that he ought reasonably to have known about it,'' IBAC said.

In 2019, feedback for HEF's pilot program was poor but it didn't stop the project.

Among concerns about the training program were reservations that it was plagiarised, was littered with grammatical errors and did not address key areas of risk.

"From the outset, it was apparent to DHHS officers that HEF was not equipped to deliver the training,'' the report said.

Despite pressure to delay the training program from department officials, Ms Mikakos' office directed the program to continue.

IBAC said an advisor "intruded into DHHS' management of the contract in ways favourable to the HEF and against the public interest".

Ultimately only 83 of the planned 575 staff got training and only $335,000 of $1.2 million was actually paid.

Ms Asmar spoke frequently with advisors in the Premier's Private Office (PPO) and the health minister's office and the report is critical of the access she was able to get.

In 2021 she complained to then-health minister Martin Foley that funding from DHHS for the training program still had not come.

Throughout the 128-page special report, the anti-corruption watchdog highlights the centralisation of power in Mr Andrews's private office, a criticism privately held by MPs and ministers for years.

The report highlights how it was normal practice for PPO advisors to assess proposals from stakeholders rather than passing it onto a minister's office.

"The Premier is accountable to Parliament for the conduct of his staff,'' the report said.

Ms Mikakos said the current government was "very centralised with the PPO having its tentacles everywhere".

While most of the findings centre on advisors working for the premier and ministers, the report also raises issue with the performance of the public service.

"Operation Daintree provides a case study of multiple occasions on which some officers in the department did not make impartial, frank and fearless decisions,'' it said.

IBAC noted that Victoria is not unique in the erosion of public service independence and observed there needs to be better protection for public servants to do their job without fear of retribution from government.

"Such fears can relate to the denial of development opportunities, such as higher duties assignments, secondments or training, or loss of chances to be promoted through to 'get(ting) your marching orders' as one DHHS witness put it,'' the report said.

Mr Andrews is expected to respond to the report at a press conference this morning.