A political pressure group, Arewa Youths for the Sustenance of Democracy and Good Governance (AYSDGG) has drummed support for the candidacy of Senator Osita Bonaventure Izunaso as Best Prepared candidate To Serve as the 10th Senate President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.

The group is therefore soliciting for the support of the President-elect, Sen Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Vice President Elect, Senator Kashim Shettima and all Stakeholders of the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC), to as a matter of fairness, justice and equity, zone the seat of the 10th Senate presidency to the South East geopolitical zone.

The group stated that, “for fairness and justice and to give a sense of belonging to every part of the country, because the President and Vice President come from the South West and North East respectively, the Senate President should come from the South-East.”

Chairman of the group, Alhaji Salihu Magaji stated this on Tuesday in Bauchi, at a Press Conference, saying that Senator Osita Bonaventure Izunaso from the South East region has all it takes to become the number three citizen of Nigeria, as he can salvage the fortune of the Green Chamber of the 10th National Assembly.

Chairman also said that Senator Isunazo possessed all the essential qualities needed to lead the Green Chamber considering his antecedent as a businessman, politician and lawyer.

He said that Nigerians should do by rising up as a nation to support and to vote for the emergence of Sen. Osita Izunaso as the elected Senator frim Imo West senatorial district, for the 10th Senate President.

Salisu Magaji further said that APC is the majority party of the 10th Senate, by the principle of Federal character and Political position balancing, for reasons of Equity, South East is meant to produce the next Senate President.

According to him, the race has therefore narrowed down to the two ranking Senators from the zone, saying however that Sen. Osita Izunaso whose leadership qualities is above all other interested aspirants is the best for the office.

He said, “we don’t undermine the capacity of other aspirants, but Sen Izunaso is a Political rhinoceros of Eastern region, whose penchant for nourishing strategic relationship across the Savannah belts of the country is clearly manifest.”

“We make bold to state that, Sen. Osita Izunaso is well packaged for the plum job. He deserves the support of all, including all other aspirants ” .

“Sen Izunaso therefore has significant network with the same creme de la cremé of the Political class. Added to that, is his strategic role as National organising secretary of APC, which placed him in the limelight within the APC strategic core. He is a legal practitioner, Consultant, a philsntrpist , Political administrator, seasoned Journalist and old ranking senators from the South East since 2007 who served in over 15 different position in the APC “Magaji said.

He stressed that,”The President-ẹ lect is known for right placement of people with qualifications in strategic positions. He is known for promoting placing square pegs in square holes and therefore will not like him to use the position of Senate President to allocate as compensation for someone only on grounds of being a Political crony, we believe he will put the interest of the country above all other interests and look at the credentials of distinguisge Senator Osita Izunaso who has a litany of Qualifications.”

He added that Sen. Osita Izunaso is a bridge builder of repute, an acceptable personality across the regions and therefore understands the stakes in national interest and power equation stressing that,”He can be very Central in the systemic integration of ndi Igbo in the 10th Senate, an inclusive dynamic only achievable through uncommon characters like him. He sure, is the best bet for Senate President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria for the 10th Senate.”

Salisu Magaji concluded that Sen. Osita Izunaso is an answer to the question that was put up in 2015, which inquired about Igbo legislator in the national Assembly with ranking grade and of the majority party extraction, where none was found.

“Now he has all the requirements and acceptability and therefore his support to assume the position of senate president is a call for placement of square peg in square hole,” he said.

He also said that the development, achievement and legacies of Senator Isunazo cannot be over-emphasised as his presence is felt virtually in all parts of the country.

The group believes that Sen Isunazo is one leader who embraces every Nigerian irrespective of tribe or religion; region or ethnicity, adding that Isunazo’s beliefs are for unity and progress of the country. The group also called on National Assembly members to rally around support for the candidacy of Izunaso’s to emerge victorious.

End

Be calm, remain steadfast to the course – Obi urges Obidients, Nigerians