Jack Crisp's wife said her relationship with the Collingwood star remains strong, despite the emergence of explicit photos on social media.

In her first public comments since footage of inappropriate pictures Crisp shared in 2018 began circulating on social media two weeks ago, Mikayla Crisp said she had dealt with the matter at the time.

The Pies gun issued a formal apology last week after meeting the AFL's integrity unit regarding a video shared to social media without his consent last week that included explicit photos, crude comments and references to illicit substances.

The AFL said Crisp admitted he had consensually sent the photos to another person several years ago and had acknowledged 'the content and his language, regardless of the setting, was extremely inappropriate'.

The 29-year-old has avoided a suspension and his wife, with whom he has two children, insisted they had both moved on from the incident.

'No marriage is perfect, and I have always maintained that our relationship has had its ups and downs,' she wrote on her Instagram story.

'We are all human and we all make mistakes. Strength of character is shown in those who face their mistakes head on by owning them and learning from them.'

Crisp's wife added their relationship had grown stronger since the incident and thanked those who showed support for them since the pictures became public.

'Jack and I have both grown significantly as individuals, and as a couple, in the years that have passed since the incident occurred,' she added.

'A heartfelt thank you to those who have taken the time to reach out and offer support or kind words these past few weeks.

“It hasn’t been easy to have our private relationship be publicly commented on in a negative manner. This is especially so when matters reported are historical, private, and were appropriately dealt with at the time.'

In deciding not to suspend or fine Crisp, the integrity unit took into consideration his apology and his improved behaviour in the years since the photos were sent.

'While the content was produced a number of years ago, and Jack has shown significant improvement in his behaviour, the incident serves as a reminder to all players to understand the responsibility to themselves, their clubs and their professional careers,' AFL football boss Andrew Dillon said in a statement.

In his apology, Crisp lamented the impact the release of the photos had on his family but insisted he had 'learnt a lot and grown as a person' since sending them several years ago.

'Last week I became aware that a video was being shared online containing private images which I had sent to another person in 2018,' Crisp said.

'I want to apologise for my actions and the impact they've had on my family and our club.

'I am incredibly fortunate to have the support of Collingwood, my wife Mikayla and my daughters while I am disappointed in myself for those actions, the impact this has had on my wife and my family hurts the most and I apologise to them for that.'

Crisp has played an extraordinary 192 consecutive AFL games - the most by a current player - dating back to round 18, 2014 when he was with the Lions.