Striker Joel Nouble has been backed for a move to Rangers this summer – by his own Livingston boss David Martindale.

The Gers will surely be in the market for another striker this summer.

Alfredo Morelos is out of contract at the end of the season and looks set to leave Rangers on a free transfer.

Antonio Colak has scored goals this season but has suffered repeated injury problems whilst the same goes for Kemar Roofe.

Finding a regular goalscorer has to be a real priority for Rangers this summer and names like Josh Maja and Peter Ratkov have been linked.

Rangers could still look closer to home and they’re now being urged to have a look at an option in the Scottish Premiership.

Livingston boss David Martindale has now told The Scottish Sun that he thinks his own striker Joel Nouble would fit the bill for Rangers.

Martindale hailed Nouble as a ‘fantastic talent’ and claims he has been simply ‘brilliant’ for Livingston.

Martindale thinks that a move to Rangers or Celtic would be fitting for Nouble, even if some people would look down on that idea.

The Livi boss at least thinks Nouble can easily play in England’s second tier if Rangers don’t want him, but really thinks a move to Glasgow makes sense.

“I think we’ve got to enjoy Joel while we’ve got him because if Joel’s playing his football at Livingston next year, I would be very very surprised,” said Martindale. “I think he’s a fantastic talent. I’d love to see him go to a big club in Scotland in terms of maybe one of the Old Firm but people will probably look down on that if I’m honest but I think he can go play in the English Championship no problem at all.”

“And I think there’s more to Joel, I genuinely believe there’s more to Joel so I’d really like to see Joel get down the road, get playing his football in the English Championship because you know what? It would be incredible to see him take his career and kick on. He’s been brilliant for us!” he added.

Nouble’s career has largely seen him turn out for non-league clubs in England.

The 6ft 4in striker’s best times have come with the likes of Grays Athletic, Haringey Borough and Concord Rangers.

Livingston took a chance on him in 2021 and after a loan spell at Arbroath, Nouble has really played well this season.

Nouble scored the opener in Livingston’s 2-0 win over St Johnstone on Saturday, taking his tally for the season to seven in 25 league games.

Nouble is a handful; he’s tall and leggy, posing a real threat to defenders with the ball is in the air or played in behind.

Already 27 though, Nouble isn’t really a natural goalscorer and Rangers don’t really need a striker who can be an option off the bench.

Rangers need a first-choice hitman who can really strike fear into Celtic – and we don’t quite think Nouble is that man even if he is emerging as a late bloomer.