Carnival Road March Day requires stamina. Sometimes masqueraders underestimate walking and dancing the long miles, equivalent to running a marathon. Soca’s biggest names, the experienced marathoners of carnival, each have their own methods to surviving the madness of moving from fete to fete, and from one carnival to the next.

Bunji Garlin, who was declared the winner of the Trinidad Road March competition following the climax of the 2023 celebrations in February, told The Gleaner that playing mas and performing back-to-back shows has improved over the years.

“I suppose having been performing since 1999, I’m seasoned in this. It becomes routine and your body knows when to go and how long you can go for…pay attention to that body clock, one can’t run a million a minute, because that will burn a person right out,” he said.

Bunji Garlin added, “Remember it’s walking and dancing and sweating, so replenish that water, the body needs vitamins and fluids to keep hydrated and even though carnival means persons will consume alcohol, that’s not hydration…don’t forget to drink water.”

St Vincentian soca star Skinny Fabulous also agreed that hydration is key but also pointed out that even persons who have been preparing ‘fi di road’ from the last staging of Carnival in Jamaica, in July 2022 up to several weeks ago, still may find the road March challenging.

“The reality is, persons must pace themselves. It’s a long day on the road, and if you’re out from start to finish, the trick is to time the sun. Between 10am to 2pm, it’s the hottest time (so) prepare by bringing along those hand-held fans and a rage, and wear that sunscreen. It’s important no matter [a person’s skin colour] try. After 2pm, the sun becomes more manageable,” Skinny Fabulous offered.

Machel Montano, who pushed it to the limit at last night’s WiFete event, closing the show at almost 2:30am wants person to “be free and have fun with life.”

He said sometimes persons should lose themselves and think outside of the physical. “Know that a human being is human but must know to just “be” free and keep a positive spirit,” the proclaimed ‘King of Soca’ explained.

The growth of Carnival in Jamaica has not gone unnoticed by the pioneers of the celebration and there are resounding expectations that the 2023 staging will be the biggest and most successful “because it’s the natural progression of Carnival in Jamaica; every year it gets bigger and better,” Machel said.

Soca veteran Iwer George’s perspective focused more on the acceptance of soca over the past 10 to 20 years. He said, “Jamaicans have become more accepting of our genre and more involved in the music and playing mas. We only expect great things at road march today.”

If you’re playing mas with Xodus and Bacchanal, GenXS, or YardMas, it probably means you’ve been attending the fetes leading up today and maybe even caught a little of the action at WiFete. Up and about to meet your makeup appointment already?

“Grab some breakfast, something healthy. Personally, I restrain from drinking [alcohol], pay close attention to the foods I eat and my diet does not include fried foods and anything with caffeine because those things can affect the quality of an entertainer’s vocals,” Nailah Blackman said.

“Naturally, carnival is a lifestyle so I have a fitness routine but walking instead of taking the elevator does strengthen those leg muscles and stretch before you start marching,” she continued.

Nailah Blackman admitted that she has not been practicing what she preaches when it comes on to preparing to participate in carnival celebrations but she offered a few post-carnival remedies.

“We artistes need the remedies when we lose our voice but there are so many preventative measures, that we can take to preserve it. Other than that, in Trinidad we have the hog plum bush, a very sour plum; I take the leaf, boil it and gargle it. I also use warm salt water to gargle. Another favourite thing of mine is the African sea coconut serum – it is a miracle juice - I add it to my tea. Finally, rest and recuperate.”