BOSTON – Quin Snyder wore the same T-shirt during Saturday’s pregame that he had on the first day he spoke to his Atlanta Hawks’ team after taking over as coach. It’s a black shirt with two Japanese symbols on it, written in white calligraphy, one atop the other, that roughly translate to “continuous improvement.” It seemed like an appropriate objective seven weeks ago after the franchise fired its second head coach in less than two years and again before a playoff series no objective NBA analyst would give his team a prayer of winning.

But that’s the thing about “continuous improvement.” It’s best measured over a long period time — not week to week, or game to game, or from a single, desperate Play-In Tournament night in Miami to a pallet of cinderblocks being dropped on their heads when the lights really come on in Boston.

The Celtics are up here.

The Hawks are down here.

What was most expected Saturday was affirmed. It doesn’t mean the Hawks can’t create some drama, maybe even win a game or two. But the screenshot of what we witnessed in Game 1 won’t easily fade.

They trailed the Celtics by 30 points at halftime. They missed their first 10 3-point attempts and 24 of 29 overall, almost as if the rim was moved by gremlins. They gained a measure of respect for the way they fought back, chopping a 32-point deficit down to 12 twice but moral victories don’t exist in postseasons and ultimately the Hawks fell 112-99.

They are down 1-0 in a best-of-seven series and somehow the hole seems deeper than one game. In many ways, this game looked liked Atlanta’s worst fears being realized. Boston looked deeper, stronger, tougher, better at both ends of the court and more playoff-ready.

“You can’t be down that much and expect to come back to win, but we still fought,” Trae Young said.

Yes, and holding together does count for something. It creates the possibility of … continuous improvement.

But Boston is one of the two best teams in the Eastern Conference and looks good enough to win its 18th championship. The team distributed T-shirts to fans before the game reading, “UNFINISHED BUSINESS,” and the “IS” in the first word was highlighted in green and made to intentionally look like 18.

It’s a great marketing idea, unless it backfires and becomes central to lampoons. But they looked good in Game 1. The Celtics’ last title came in 2008, the year the 37-win Hawks illogically took the 66-win Celtics to seven games in Round 1. Every game in Boston was a blowout, and what happened Saturday mirrored that.

But is making this a series realistic? Even when Boston started slowly in 3-point shooting, the Hawks’ frontcourt was overwhelmed inside by Jaylen Brown, Jayson Tatum, Al Horford and Robert Williams off the bench. Then when it began to rain treys in TD Garden, it was over.

Asked about the lack of early aggressiveness, even seeming timid, John Collins said, “We weren’t timid. We weren’t scared. We just came out with a lack of mental focus. We weren’t locked in enough. Sometimes that just happens. As a team we definitely knew what to expect game plan-wise but on the court sometimes it’s harder to execute. Not scared. Not timid. None of those negative phrases from us. We’re together.”

It would’ve been easy to fall apart. But it was clear that the Celtics knew what they were doing at the outset. They smothered Young, they took control of the inside and they dominated the boards (a key to the Hawks’ Play-In win over the Miami Heat).

The best thing the Hawks ever did was win that game the way they did. Also, the worst thing the Hawks ever did also was win that game the way they did. It crystalized Boston’s strategy. Coach Joe Mazzulla acknowledged before the game he had been hammering his players about rebounding.

Snyder praised his team’s second-half effort. It’s all he had. Asked what he told his players at halftime, he said, “It’s tough. These are the swings of the payoffs. More than anything you just have to keep competing, and when you’re down by that much it gets harder and harder. But we saw a little light in the second half. That can pick you up a little bit. And we made a shot.”

The Hawks shot 33 percent in the first half, 46 percent in the second. Baby steps.

“The mental toughness to win a series in this league is significant,” Snyder said. “We have to demonstrate that, and I think we did.”

But the Celtics aren’t the Heat. The Hawks had 26 second-chance points in the Miami game. They had 12 in Boston. They need to be exceptional to beat an exceptional team in a seven-game series and there’s nothing to indicate they’re there yet. Things like continuous improvement don’t always happen on our timeline.