Tunnel inspection to disrupt LRT service for two weekends   "This type of regular maintenance is common for underground tunnels, and there are no safety concerns."      Workers install rail tracks through the Confederation Line LRT tunnel in a picture dated Feb. 16, 2018. Source: City of Ottawa  /

THIS CONTENT IS RESERVED FOR SUBSCRIBERS ONLY Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.  Unlimited online access to articles from across Canada with one account Get exclusive access to the Ottawa Citizen ePaper, an electronic replica of the print edition that you can share, download and comment on Enjoy insights and behind-the-scenes analysis from our award-winning journalists Support local journalists and the next generation of journalists      Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.  Unlimited online access to articles from across Canada with one account Get exclusive access to the Ottawa Citizen ePaper, an electronic replica of the print edition that you can share, download and comment on Enjoy insights and behind-the-scenes analysis from our award-winning journalists Support local journalists and the next generation of journalists      Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience.  Access articles from across Canada with one account Share your thoughts and join the conversation in the comments  Get email updates from your favourite authors

We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or

tap here to see other videos from our team.     Tunnel inspection to disrupt LRT service for two weekends       The service interruption between Parliament Station and Hurdman Station will occur on April 29-30 and May 6-7, Transit General Manager Renée Amilcar said in a Wednesday memo to city council. Full service is expected to resume at 5 a.m. on the following Monday mornings.  “This work must occur for Rideau Transit Group (RTG) to assess the scope of required repairs to prevent water infiltration in sections of the tunnel. This type of regular maintenance is common for underground tunnels, and there are no safety concerns,” Amilcar’s memo said.  The LRT will run between Parliament and Tunney’s Pasture in the west and Hurdman and Blair in the east, with replacement buses in service to bridge the gap.  “This RTG assessment is necessary and will provide the basis for the development of a work plan for scheduled tunnel maintenance work in June,” the memo said.  Information on the June shutdown is to be delivered later.  More details on the shutdowns will be given at Thursday’s transit commission meeting.

What happens if 155,000 federal public service workers go on strike?                Cohen: It's not that complicated. Donald Trump is done                 Dining Out: Bar Lupulus's menu can still leave me thinking, happily, that I've led a sheltered life

This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.