Whether you’re looking for candy-less basket ideas or fun Spring reads, the National Geographic Kids’ “Hop Into Spring Giveaway” features six books for kids of all ages that are filled with fuzzy animals, fun facts, and all things sports — a perfect fit for Easter and the celebration of Spring!

Did you know that a giraffe’s eye is as big as a Ping-Pong ball? Or that about 19 million hot dogs are sold at major league baseball games every year? Or that there is only one bone in your body that’s not connected to another one? This book is chock-full of fascinating facts, silly stats, and catchy little knowledge nuggets in all kinds of awesome categories, from amphibians to black holes to the gold rush.

Special features include Extreme Weirdness, Strange Places, What’s the Difference, and more. Bold, colorful photographs in a supersize format and spectacular information create a winning combination for curious kids who can’t wait to learn more about the world.

Little Kids First Board Book: Becoming a Butterfly

Follow one of nature’s most fascinating creatures from egg to caterpillar to butterfly in this vibrantly illustrated board book that introduces babies and toddlers to these incredible insects.

Bursting with vivid photos and featuring super-simple facts, this charming board book explores how a butterfly becomes a butterfly. Little readers will be dazzled by the variety of colorful butterflies they meet as they learn how these beloved insects develop from egg to caterpillar to chrysalis to an adult ready to spread its wings and fly.

Little Kids First Big Book of Sports

Climb, dive, skare and race into the wide world of sports! This lively reference book, co-branded with ESPN, introduces young readers to a variety of sports from across the globe and explores how they are played.

Whether a sport needs a ball or a stick, a pool or a field, a racquet or a ski pole, young readers can explore each sport’s history and the rules and skills that make that sport unique. From basketball to soccer, lacrosse to cricket, archery to diving, bowling to skateboarding, snowboarding to playground games, this lively reference book covers a variety of team and individual sports. Special sections look at the Olympic and Paralympic Games. Whether you’re interested in team sports, solo sports, or watching from the stands, this book has something for everyone. Let’s play!

Zeus the Mighty: The Voyage on the Oddest Sea

Join Zeus the overconfident hamster, Athena the wise cat, Ares the treat-loving pug, Poseidon the proud pufferfish, Demeter the loyal grasshopper, and Hermes the daring chicken on another laugh-out-loud adventure through Greek mythology.

Plunge into stormy waters with Zeus the hamster and his gaggle of gods as they meet a shape-shifting soothsayer and uncover the mysteries of the deep in the spellbinding fifth book in this hilarious romp through Greek mythology.

After an earthquake rocks the Aegean Sea, Zeus and Demeter set sail in a not-so-seaworthy vessel to find out what really happened. When their ship is capsized by a slithering sea monster, the duo find themselves trapped in a mystifying underwater realm. The other Olympians mount a rescue mission, only to encounter enchanting mermaidlike creatures with hypnotic songs and a tentacled shape-shifter who tells tales of the future. His uncanny abilities make the Olympians question themselves―and each other. Can the god squad stick together, or will the strange currents of this underwater world tear them apart?

If baby animals make you go aww, this collection of stories is the book for you! Curl up with 12 true tales about some of the most adorable baby animals on the planet. Each story is the ideal length to be read aloud in five minutes, perfect for bedtime, story time, or anytime.

From inspiring tales of baby manatee and baby wombat rescues to irresistible stories of how panda cubs, penguin chicks, and more babies grow up, this nonfiction 5-minute storybook will engage and enchant animal lovers of all ages. Illustrated with colorful photographs, these true stories are perfect for any time you need a little boost of cute!

Chock-full of kids’ favorite animals: dogs, cats, bunnies, hamsters, birds, cows, sheep, pigs, and many more! With a colorful design and loaded with tons of games and activities–such as mazes, matching, drawing, and counting — kids are sure to love these pages of 2,000 stickers!

One lucky reader will receive all 6 National Geographic Kids Books featured above

Welcome to the Dancing In The Rain Giveaway Hop

Hosted by The Mommy Island and The Kids Did It

After entering my giveaway above, make sure you check out the other bloggers’ giveaways in the linky below.