After seven years airing on hip-hop-focused TV network Revolt, the Breakfast Club ceased airing in November 2021. For some, it was a sad day, as they loved watching as much as listening, but thankfully, the standard wasn’t away from the small screen for too long. Now, a year and a half after it disappeared from Diddy’s cable channel, it’s back on TV, and it’s found an exciting new home.

As of Monday (April 17), Breakfast Club is a TV show once again. This time around, the beloved program has landed at BET, and while the radio version will remain exactly the same, those tuning in to watch will see something a bit different.

iHeartMedia (the company that owns the Breakfast Club) and BET are trying a daring experiment, one which is something of a risk and which involves a dedicated and talented team working at a rapid pace, but which sounds thrilling…as long as it all plays out as everyone hopes.

Jason Isbell's Documentary Looks Like It's About Music, But It's Really About So Much More

Every weekday, the Breakfast Club airs live from New York City from 5:30 to 10:00 AM. A far more condensed version of that day’s episode will also play on BET from 9:00 to 10:00 AM. But…how?

“We have a team that's cutting the show in segments from 6:00 to 8:30 AM,” explained Tiffany Williams, BET’s EVP of Unscripted and the Breakfast Club’s executive producer, during a conversation a few days before the new TV version premiered. “We have network, creative and production execs, alongside our legal and standards, who are going to be watching the show feed in real time to give input on the TV airing of the show.”

Williams explained further that “we are capturing content from 90 minutes and then dropping it down to a 40 minute show which, for external purposes, is a one-hour show.”

So, those watching at home can turn on BET at 9:00 AM to catch what will essentially be the highlights of that day’s episode of the Breakfast Club. Each day will feature a handful of fan-favorite segments, such as the Front Page News, the Rumor Report, Charlamagne's Donkey of the Day, and the interviews the celebrities who stop by the newly-renovated studio, which is now even better equipped for not just producing a great radio program, but also top-notch video content as well.

Some of what viewers see on TV will be a few hours old, but other segments will have played live on the radio mere minutes prior.

According to John Sykes, iHeartMedia’s President, Entertainment Enterprises, the conversation around bringing the Breakfast Club to BET was ignited a few years back, even before it was done at Revolt. BET CEO Scott Mills had made it clear that the company was very interested in the radio standard, and that’s not shocking, as, in Sykes’ words, the Breakfast Club “wasn't just driving Black culture, it was driving all culture” and had, in just a short time, become “a cultural beacon.”

Lewis Capaldi's Candid Netflix Documentary Is Equal Parts Funny And Difficult To Watch

During an interview, Sykes described this deal as a true “win-win,” and he’s not just spouting business jargon. BET gets to count one of the most beloved brands in hip-hop as its first proper morning show in years (since 106 & Park ended), while iHeartMedia earns a healthy licensing fee and reaches new people.

Those who listen to the Breakfast Club in the car on their way to work–an audience of millions of Americans every day–will not change, but now others who are at home at the same time can turn on the TV and join in on the experience as well. The two groups largely compliment each other, instead of competing.

As if TV and radio wasn’t enough to certify the Breakfast Club as its own mini media empire, the title is also massively popular on YouTube. Clips from each day’s airtime are uploaded, and for anyone who is into hip-hop, they’re near-unmissable online, as they’re shared endlessly on social media. The official Breakfast Club YouTube channel has accrued 5.32 million subscribers, and its videos are nearing a collective 2.9 billion plays.

The Recording Academy's Beach Boys TV Special: A Strategic Move To Stay Top Of Mind Post-Grammys

Sykes points out that the Breakfast Club’s presence on TV, radio, and digital may make it the only name in entertainment to succeed across all three fields. This is certainly something to celebrate, but it’s also a necessity in today’s fractured media landscape. “You have to have multiple touchpoints to get what you used to be able to get in one 20 or 30 years ago,” Sykes commented.

Those who already turn on the radio to catch the Breakfast Club each AM might also watch it on TV (or on BET+, where each Sunday, that week’s episodes will be uploaded), and everyone can enjoy it on YouTube just as they always have, but the addition of BET brings something special and fun to potential new viewers–those who might not have thought to look to hosts DJ Envy and Charlamagne tha God for morning-time entertainment.

“I will tell you,” began Williams with a bit of a laugh, “we've done test episodes of the show and I could not stop laughing. It really is an awesome way to wake up in the morning.”