FTR, the tag team of Dax Harwood and Cash Wheeler, have recently confirmed that they have re-signed with All Elite Wrestling (AEW) and are not going back to WWE. The duo had been teasing their future for months, as their contracts with AEW expired this month. However, on the latest episode of Dax Harwood’s podcast, “FTR with Dax”, Dax revealed that they had made their decision to stay with AEW long before Vince McMahon returned to power in WWE.

“Never, ever, ever did I want any kind of bidding war between WWE and AEW,” the wrestler said. “Never did I want to try to play one side against the other. It was all literally me taking everything for the last … 19 years of my career, compiling it up in my brain and wondering what the best course of action for me is, because I want to make sure my legacy, our legacy is cemented.”

Dax Harwood went on to say that his family helped influence his decision. He said he wants to spend more time with his family and AEW’s schedule allows him to do that.

“I want to build on that legacy even more, take care of my family the best way I can, and the best way to take care of my family right now is just make sure that … I’m spending all the time that I’m allowed to spend with them. There were a lot of factors in it, and Tony Khan and AEW just provided us with the best … schedule.”

Dax Harwood also credited AEW and Tony Khan for providing a platform where he and Cash Wheeler were able to create a lasting legacy for the past three years.

“Everything that we’ve earned, everything that we’ve got for these last three years is because of what we’ve done in AEW. The legacy that we have, we have created, cemented, built on over the last three years is because of what Tony Khan can offer us,” he said.

FTR are currently in their second reign as AEW World Tag Team Champions, after defeating The Gunns in a careers vs. titles match on AEW Dynamite last Wednesday. The match had the stipulation that if FTR lost, they would have to leave AEW. However, Harwood said that they had already signed their new contracts before the match.

FTR are widely regarded as one of the best tag teams in the world and have won multiple championships across several promotions around the world. They have also been involved in some of the most acclaimed tag team matches in recent history such as their recent match against the Briscoe Brothers. Stay tuned to Ringside News as we bring you similar stories.

What are your thoughts on FTR re-signing with AEW? Do you think they were trying to start a bidding war? Sound off in the comments section.