Paul McCartney is back on the Billboard charts this week with a new hit that helps him accomplish something he’s never done before–which is hard to believe is still possible at this point for someone so successful.

The former Beatle debuts on two of Billboard’s dance charts with a new single titled “Say Say Say.” This is a remarkable achievement for the superstar, who has never before appeared on either of the two charts mentioned below during his illustrious six-decade-long career.

“Say Say Say” is an updated version of the song McCartney originally released with Michael Jackson in 1983. This time around, McCartney and Jackson are both credited, along with producer Kygo, who created the accompanying music for the original vocals. The new version is a fast-paced dance number that has clearly resonated with fans and listeners and introduced the cut to a new generation.

Lewis Capaldi's Candid Netflix Documentary Is Equal Parts Funny And Difficult To Watch

The new version of “Say Say Say” opens at No. 16 on the Hot Dance/Electronic Songs chart, which ranks the most popular tracks in the U. S. that fall under those two genres. The list takes into account streams, sales, and radio play. McCartney earns the second-highest start of the frame on the tally, behind only Bebe Rexha’s “Call on Me.”

The same song also opens on the Dance/Electronic Digital Song Sales chart, which looks specifically at pure purchases of tunes in these genres. “Say Say Say” debuts at No. 12 on this ranking, starting slightly higher than its debut on the Hot Dance/Electronic Songs chart. The trio still comes in second, however, as Ava Max’s song “Cold as Ice” earns the honor of the top debut of the week by opening at No. 5.

It is worth noting that while McCartney is new to both of these charts, he has made it to Billboard’s other two dance-focused rankings in the past. The legendary singer-songwriter has placed a trio of tunes on the Dance Club Songs chart, including the original version of “Say Say Say” back in the ‘80s. He has also landed on the Dance/Mix Show Airplay chart once, alongside Kanye West and Rihanna on “FourFiveSeconds” in 2015.