THE RISE AND FALL OF A SHOOTING STAR — ANDREW GILLUM. His Sodomite/Homosexual Lying Tryst While Married to His Female Wife Was the Beginning of the End. Gillum, Almost Elected Florida Governor, is Now on Trial in Federal Court. If he Loses, He Could Spend the Rest of His Life in Jail

Five years ago, Andrew Gillum was one of the brightest stars in Florida politics.

The then-Tallahassee mayor had a national profile. He won the 2018 Democratic nomination for Florida governor. And he nearly defeated Ron DeSantis, losing by fewer than 34,000 votes, or 0.41 percentage points.

Then came the fall.

In 2020, he was found by police in a South Beach hotel room in the company of a man who appeared to have overdosed on drugs.

And last year, he was indicted by a federal grand jury, accused of lying to FBI agents and defrauding campaign mega donors and organizations that believed they were donating to legitimate political causes.

Gillum, 43, and his political adviser and mentor, Sharon Janet Lettman-Hicks, 54, are facing a three-week trial in federal court in Tallahassee that starts Monday.

The jury trial should provide an unusual glimpse into a federal political corruption investigation, featuring potentially hours of secret recordings involving Gillum and his brother, Marcus, and testimony from undercover FBI agents.

Gillum has denied the allegations against him. But the federal corruption probe that led to charges against Gillum has already led to convictions against another former Tallahassee mayor and a local developer.

“This is our chance to show Andrew’s innocence, and we’re looking forward to it,” said his attorney, David O. Markus of Miami, this week.

What is Gillum accused of?

The government accuses Gillum of soliciting political contributions under false pretenses, routing the money through Lettman-Hicks’ communications company, and then distributing the money to Gillum.

The day after he lost the 2018 election, for example, Gillum emailed his campaign staff and said he was assigning Lettman-Hicks to oversee the campaign budgets.

The campaign then transferred $60,000 to Lettman-Hicks’ communications company, called P&P Communications, for expenses relating to get-out-the-vote efforts, federal prosecutors allege. P&P Communications then made four $5,000 transfers, called “bonuses,” to Gillum’s personal account.

The indictment alleges that nearly $57,000 in campaign and other contributions was illegally steered into Gillum’s personal account.

Gillum is also charged with lying to FBI agents.

During the FBI’s sprawling public corruption investigation in Tallahassee, undercover agents posing as developers paid for parts of a 2016 trip Gillum and his brother took to New York City. The indictment alleges agents paid for his room at the Millennium Hilton hotel, his food and drink, a boat ride around New York Harbor and a ticket to the hit Broadway show “Hamilton.”

When Gillum voluntarily sat down with FBI agents in 2017, he denied ever receiving gifts from the supposed “developers.”

In an unusual move, a federal grand jury on Tuesday issued an updated indictment against Gillum and Lettman-Hicks. The indictment dropped two counts of wire fraud.

In court on Thursday, Markus said it was “outrageous” that the updated indictment was issued less than a week before the trial was set to start.

“We had our reasons for doing that,” Assistant U. S. Attorney Gary Milligan replied.

Ultimately, neither Gillum nor Lettman-Hicks asked for the trial to be delayed because of the new indictment.

What kind of punishment is he facing?