Given that designing beautiful homes is their day job, it's perhaps no surprise that when some of the world's most renowned architects design homes for themselves, the results are spectacular.

It's a notion underscored by the stunning new edition of coffee-table book Architects At Home by architect John V Mutlow, published by Images Publishing. It offers an enticing look through the keyholes of remarkable properties designed by the architects that live in them.

Among the incredible dwellings to feature in the book are a striking glass house in South London, a showstopping 'lookout tower' in New York State and a stylish 'shed' in Melbourne.

The publisher notes: 'Not only do these pages offer a rare glimpse into each architect’s personal, private environment, but each uniquely designed project provides insight into how each architect marries trends with their own personal philosophy, and how they inject interior design flair into their own contemporary domain.'

In the introduction, Mutlow writes: 'Architects use the design of their own homes both as an experiment and as a representation of their own beliefs and ideals. Their grounding through education, study, and personal experiences may form a base or starting point, but the influences of their culture, lifestyle, and the environment of their upbringing naturally form the design elements in their architecture.'

Scroll down for a guided tour of the 'fascinating, eclectic and stylish abodes' that are splashed across the pages of this tantalising tome...

TOWER HOUSE, NEW YORK STATE: The book explains that architect Thomas Gluck designed this 'impressive' structure as a holiday home for his family in upstate New York. The abode is designed to look like a 'stairway to the canopy of trees that fill this site'. The book reveals: 'At night, with a few lights on inside, the house twinkles inside its surrounding treescape. With views of the Catskill mountain range, the house becomes both a lookout and a family retreat'

THE PAVILION HAUS, TEXAS: Describing this dwelling, designed by architect Shawn Gottschalk for his young family, the book says: 'Exhibiting a strong connection to the outdoors, the home features planes of brick walls and floor-to-ceiling glass, with a backyard that opens up to a large covered deck and pool. The family enjoys being outside: a preference attributed to one owner’s humble upbringings on a small farm.' The book adds that the home was designed with a 'focus on quality of space rather than size'

HILLSIDE ROCK, ARKANSAS: Sharing the story behind this home, the book says: 'Located on a dramatically sloping site in the Ozark Mountains of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Frank Jacobus desired a home that would take advantage of the unique qualities of wooded enclosure and mountainous expanse the location offered.' The interior was designed to be predominately white, 'so as not to compete with the beautiful cacophony of exterior colours as they change throughout the seasons'

HOUSE, LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA: This striking home, designed by Clive Wilkinson, sits in a 'fortuitous hillside location hovering above the Los Angeles basin'. Inside, visitors are greeted by a view of the city, the book reveals. The children's bedrooms open onto the infinity pool terrace and the garden extends down the hill, the book notes. The different levels of the home 'address the varying family needs as children and parents can own their own territories but come together for social, recreational, and dining needs in one of the unique spaces created by the steeply sloping site'