DISCLOSURE: This post may contain affiliate links, meaning when you click the links and make a purchase, we receive a commission.

Need something to do this weekend? We’ve got a great idea: start with some light spring cleaning in your closet, then hit up shopDisney for some fun new looks! Now’s a PERFECT time, because A.) it’s spring and B.) shopDisney has a sale happening right now!

While we’re on the subject, we’ve got good news and bad news. The good news is that the sale is still happening. The bad news is that today, April 16th, is the LAST DAY you can choose a free gift with your purchase on shopDisney! To save you a little time, we’ve got a few suggestions!

If you find yourself on the shopDisney website this weekend, make sure to use code GIFT at checkout for free shipping AND a free gift if you spend $100+. When it comes to Disney merch, trust us, it’s not hard to spend $100.

If you’re looking for a little inspiration, we’ve got you covered! Check out this new Mickey Mouse and Friends Disney100 Loungefly Backpack that’s filled with all our favorite Disney characters. What better way to celebrate the big anniversary than with a new bag?

If you’ve visited Disney World in the past couple of years, you know that Loungefly backpacks are THE theme park accessory for Disney fans. You can grab this backpack right on the shopDisney website!

Speaking of accessories, we had to share these adorable Snow White Minnie Ears with ya. Look at the baby deer and the little chipmunk 🥺. Too. Cute.

These ears are part of the new Disney100 collection on shopDisney.

For your little ones, we found the most adorable LEGO DUPLO 3 In 1 Magical Castle set EVER. The set comes with Minnie, Mickey, Daisy, and Donald DUPLO characters — and even a little glass slipper!

You can find this set on shopDisney as part of the Disney100 merchandise collection!

We’re always on the lookout for the best Disney deals, so stay tuned for more!

Join the DFB Newsletter to get all the breaking news right in your inbox! Click here to Subscribe!

With more than , the 2023 DFB Guide to Walt Disney World Dining is full of tips and planning tools developed by Disney World experts over 30+ years of visits. We've done the research for you, so you'll know just which spots will uniquely suit your family's needs!

You'll get a Reference Guide, a 101 Plan, and a Printables and Resources Guide! With mini-reviews of ; an entire chapter on ; full ; and a ; you'll have everything you need to plan your best vacation yet.

Click here to  with code to save 25% off the cover price today!

Our guides are backed by a 100% money-back guarantee, so you have nothing to lose. 🙂

Have you started any spring cleaning yet? Let us know in the comments!