Kai Havertz and Mason Mount’s early strikes helped Chelsea ease to a 2-0 win over Bournemouth on Tuesday. Image from Twitter/CFC Buddy

Kai Havertz and Mason Mount’s early strikes helped Chelsea ease to a 2-0 win over Bournemouth on Tuesday. Image from Twitter/CFC Buddy

Erstwhile Blues star Manu Petit believes Mason Mount’s loyalty to Chelsea is deserving of a new contract.

Petit picked Mount out as a positive amidst the otherwise shambolic running of the club since it was acquired by Todd Boehly.

Asked if it is strange that Mason Mount has yet to sign a new contract, Petit told Legal Sportsbooks:” Yes, definitely.

ALSO READ: If Arsenal want to stay at the top next season they must sign Rice

“He’s one of their few homegrown players from the Chelsea academy. Mason Mount is not stupid.

“He’s been tremendous for Chelsea the last couple of years. He has the DNA of the club, and the fans love him.

“Can you imagine what the mindset of the fans could be at the end of the season if they see Mason Mount leave the club?

“He has seen the club splash millions on new players and wages and he’s probably thinking ‘ok you can spend millions on new players who have no link with Chelsea, whilst I’ve been here for years and years shown loyalty to the club and done everything I can on the pitch. I deserve a proper contract now.’ I can understand his frustration.”

Petit believes it is up to the senior hands at Chelsea to ensure the team starts to move forward amidst the chaos from the top down.

“I know that when they lost against Brighton at home last Saturday [Boehly] had a fight with some fans in the ground.

“It’s a really difficult time for him and for the team. I think there is no need to talk anymore.

“I think some players need to show composure, to show maturity and to show character and personality and try to save what can be saved until the end of the season.

” But with everything we’ve seen so far with Chelsea, the link between the players, the body language, everything. There’s no good news. There’s no positives with Chelsea that I can see, so this season could be a transition season for them. They need to make the right decisions at the end of the season.”

CLICK HERE TO READ MORE ARTICLES BY JAMES RICHARDSON