Dallas Cowboys quarterback Dak Prescott has multiple new weapons to start working with this offseason, including former Texans receiver Brandin Cooks. Prescott shared his initial reaction to Cooks’ skill on Adam Schefter’s podcast.

“It was very exciting to throw with him today,” Prescott said. “The guy is different. That is real speed.”

Cooks boasted 4.33 speed coming out of Oregon State on the way to becoming a first-round selection.

The Cowboys acquired Cooks in a trade with the Houston Texans to the tune of $12 million for the 2023 season.

Although the Cowboys are paying a hefty sum for the six-time 1,000-yard receiver, they saved on cap space by converting $8 million of his $12 million salary into a signing bonus. That leaves Dallas with a cap hit of $6 million this season.

After winning just 11 games in the last three years with the Houston Texans, Cooks can’t wait to get back on the field alongside Prescott. He was the leading receiver for Houston last season with 699 yards on 57 receptions.

“I couldn’t be hungrier,” Cooks told reporters after inking his new deal. “When you have those 3 years under your belt, that’s definitely fueling the fire and hunger to help my team win. I can’t wait. I truly can’t.”

Dallas wants Cooks to play the role that Amari Cooper used to fill in the 2021 offense. He can use his speed to create separation and open up windows for his teammates, but he’s unlikely to be the No. 1 option.

Cooks joins an already explosive offense in the hopes that he can help Prescott, Mike McCarthy and the gang get past the second round of the playoffs.

He believes his relationship with fellow wideouts CeeDee Lamb and Michael Gallup will be one with “no ego.”

“CeeDee, you’re talking about a guy that’s been electric since the moment he stepped into this league but you saw last year what he did to really just go into that mode of a true No. 1 receiver,” Cooks said on Schefter’s podcast. “I’ve got a lot of respect for his game from afar and I hit him up and was like, ‘Look, I’m coming to just help.’ Like, there’s no ego. And same thing with Michael Gallup.

“And then you talk about Dak, his competitive nature, the way that he goes about his work, you hear about it from teammates or ex-teammates, the way that he carries himself, I’m truly excited to be able to play with a guy who is hungry to get better.”