You may be trying to access this site from a secured browser on the server. Please enable scripts and reload this page.

You may be trying to access this site from a secured browser on the server. Please enable scripts and reload this page.

Effects of Sex and Cuff Pressure on Physiological Responses during Blood Flow Restriction Resistance Exercise in Young Adults

1Integrated Laboratory of Exercise and Applied Physiology (iLEAP), Department of Health, Kinesiology and Sport, College of Education and Professional Studies, University of South Alabama, Mobile, AL

3Division of Kinesiology, School of Kinesiology and Physical Therapy, University of Central Florida, Orlando, FL

The purpose of this study was to examine the physiological responses resulting from an acute blood flow restriction resistance exercise bout with two different cuff pressures in young, healthy men and women.

Thirty adults (18–30 yr) completed a bilateral leg extension blood flow restriction bout consisting of four sets (30–15–15–15 repetitions), with cuffs applied at pressures corresponding to 40% and 60% of the minimum arterial occlusion pressure (AOP) needed to completely collapse the femoral arteries. During each of these conditions (40% and 60% AOP), physiological measures of near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) and EMG amplitude (EMG AMP) were collected from the dominant or nondominant vastus lateralis. After each set, ratings of perceived exertion (RPE) were collected, whereas only at baseline and at the end of the bout, mean arterial pressure (MAP) was assessed. Separate mixed-factorial ANOVA models were used to examine mean differences in the change in EMG AMP and NIRS parameters during each set. The absolute RPE and MAP values were also examined with separate ANOVAs. A P value ≤0.05 was considered statistically significant.

Regardless of sex or cuff pressure, the change in EMG AMP was lower in set 1 (14.8%) compared with the remaining sets (22.6%–27.0%). The 40% AOP condition elicited the greatest changes in oxy[heme] and deoxy[heme], while also providing lower RPEs. For MAP, there was an effect for time such that MAP increased from preexercise (87.5 ± 4.3 mm Hg) to postexercise (104.5 ± 4.1 mm Hg).

The major findings suggested that the 40% AOP condition permitted the greatest amount of recovery during the interset rest. In addition, there did not seem to be any meaningful sex-related difference in this sample of young healthy adults.

Copyright © 2022 by the American College of Sports Medicine

You can read the full text of this article if you:

Effects of Sex and Cuff Pressure on Physiological Responses during Blood Flow Restriction Resistance Exercise in Young Adults

Thought you might appreciate this item(s) I saw in Medicine & Science in Sports & Exercise.

Your message has been successfully sent to your colleague.

Some error has occurred while processing your request. Please try after some time.

Export All Images to PowerPoint File

Thought you might appreciate this item(s) I saw in Medicine & Science in Sports & Exercise.

Your message has been successfully sent to your colleague.

Some error has occurred while processing your request. Please try after some time.

Search for Similar Articles

You may search for similar articles that contain these same keywords or you may                 modify the keyword list to augment your search.

Data is temporarily unavailable. Please try again soon.

Readers Of this Article Also Read

Cardiorespiratory Fitness, BMI, Mortality, and Cardiovascular Disease in Adults with Overweight/Obesity and Type 2 Diabetes

Strength and Biomechanical Risk Factors for Noncontact ACL Injury in Elite Female Footballers: A Prospective Study

An Evidence-Based Narrative Review of Mechanisms of Resistance Exercise–Induced Human Skeletal Muscle Hypertrophy

Myofibrillar Protein Synthesis and Acute Intracellular Signaling with Elastic Band Resistance Exercise in Young and Older Men

Patellofemoral Compressive Force and Stress During the Forward and Side Lunge With and Without a Stride: 857: May 29 3:15 PM - 3:30 PM