St. Lucie County School Board decides to keep challenged books in school libraries

ST. LUCIE COUNTY — Sixteen books challenged for inappropriate content will remain on school library shelves, although many will be moved to upper grade levels, the School Board decided Tuesday.

The board, in a 4 to 1 vote, agreed with the recommendation of a 34-member review committee to keep the books in the public schools. At least eight of the books — "The Kite Runner," "Drama," "Thirteen Reasons Why," "The Hate U Give," "More Happy Than Not," "Extremely Loud & Incredibly Close," "Beloved" and "The Truth About Alice" — were removed last month from Martin County school libraries.

Most of those same books will be restricted to the high school libraries in St. Lucie County, the board agreed. Only "Drama" and "Thirteen Reasons Why" will be allowed in middle and high schools.

The full list is available on the district's website.

The language used in some of the books concerned board member Donna Mills, but, she said, they contain important messages for students.

"There are life lessons that are being taught in these books," Mills said. "These books are meaningful, and they need to be in the school system."

Board member Jennifer Richardson disagreed, saying that some books contained passages previously deemed inappropriate for reading aloud during a board meeting.

A crowd of almost 200 people packed the meeting, most of them asking the board to keep the books.

Among the crowd were high school students who said the books gave them access to characters with whom they can identify. Many of the books on the list inspired the students, they said, and helped them cope with similar situations described in the books.

"It is imperative that we have access to books on real-world experiences we may soon face or may already be facing," said Kayla Washington, 17. "It is imperative that I be able to educate myself on the prejudices and the racism that I currently face in your school system today, and that I will face in your workforce."

"(Restricting the books) does not protect innocence, but harbors ignorance," said student Feoras Jahrmarkt, 16.

"Books for many kids are a refuge, a safe place," said resident Janis Gibson. "Please do not deny children the right to find their safe space."

Resident Dale Galiano, who filed the original challenges of the books, said she wanted the books taken out of all school libraries, saying they were inappropriate. The books are more suitable for a public library, she said. While parents can restrict their child from checking out certain books, they often don't have the time to review every book, she said.

"My main (mission) in all this is to make sure these kids come first — the kids who may not have had the privilege of having good mentors," Galiano said.

Richardson wondered how parents would know which books to restrict from their children.

"How would I know as a parent this was on that list if I wasn't paying attention," Richardson said, referring to the book "This One Summer," which she said contains passages she would not want her child reading. "How do we protect these kids?"

The state plans to publish a list of challenged books to inform parents, said Schools Superintendent Jon Prince. The district also will post the list on its website.

This is the third time in recent weeks a Treasure Coast school district has discussed removing books. Last month, parents and community members asked the Martin County School Board to reconsider the district's removal of more than 80 challenged books. Four books were removed from Indian River County school libraries last month after a parent's complaint.

Version of 'Anne Frank' removed from Florida high school library after parent complaint

Bring them back or keep them off? Parents mixed on book removals from Martin County schools

Many of the book challenges are part of a nationwide movement primarily led by Moms for Liberty, a parent-advocacy group that began in Indian River and Brevard counties. Galiano is unaffiliated with Moms for Liberty, she said.

Colleen Wixon is the education reporter for TCPalm.com. Contact her at colleen.wixon@tcpalm.com or 772-978-2235.