Ileana D’Cruz is one of the most well-established actresses in B-town. Furthermore, the actress was on a break for a good long time. However, she has dropped a big bomb on Instagram that is making her fans go crazy. Today she announced her pregnancy news via an Instagram post. To say that her post was super cute would be a sheer understatement. In January, she shared her health news and now she is sharing this. Amazing, right? If you are curious to know about this news and her post then you are at the right place. Read on to enlighten yourself about everything related to Ileana D’Cruz’s pregnancy.

The actress shared a super cute monochrome picture of a onesie. What was written on the onesie was enough to make netizens guess what the post is all about. It read “And so the ADVENTURE begins”. Furthermore, in the next slide, she also shared a picture of a pendant that had “Mama” initials on it.

She captioned this super cute post as we quote,

“Coming soon. Can’t wait to meet you my little darling.”

Moments after she shared this adorable post netizens bombarded the comment section with love. Be it her fans or her friends everyone is congratulating beautiful Ileana. We all remember that earlier Ileana D’Cruz was in a relationship with Andrew Kneebone. However, the two parted ways in 2019 for reasons best known to them. Who the daddy of the baby is of course a question that is making netizens super curious. Some fans even asked about who is the father.

One netizen wrote as we quote,

“Are you married? Who is the father?”

Another went like this,

“Can you please share the details?”

While Ileana herself has not shared who the baby daddy is several rumors are suggesting that Sebastian Laurent Michel, brother of Katrina Kaif. Several reports suggest that Ileana has been dating Sebastian Laurent Michel for some time now. Furthermore, even Karan Johar apparently confirmed their relationship in one of the episodes of his chat show Koffee With Karan season 7.

The rumors became more believable when last year Katrina shared photos from her birthday celebrations in the Maldives. There is plenty of pictures where everyone is visible. However, the duo that caught everyone’s attention was none other than Ileana D’Cruz and  Sebastian Laurent Michel.

On the flip side, what is worth noting is that we all are assuming that Ileana is out of sight and may continue to do so. However, let us burst your bubble and tell you that she is making a comeback with a new movie. She will next be seen in ‘Tera Kya Hoga Lovely?’ where she will be sharing the screen space with none other than Randeep Hooda.

Cinetales is on YouTube; click here to subscribe for the latest videos and updates.