A woman was devastated to discover a terrifying error she made by mistaking wood sealant for a beauty product.

Louisa Melcher, from New York, simply used what she thought was hairspray all over the crown of her head before going out one night.

But the woman started to get suspicious after the product did not wash off despite shampooing her hair twice the next day.

She soon realised that her housekeeper accidentally left a can of wood shellac commonly used in woodworking on Louisa's vanity table.

Wood shellac is extremely dangerous and should not come into direct contact with skin.

Louisa shared a video of her mishap on social media.

'I am one second away from fully losing my f**king mind right now,' she said.

The woman detailed her journey attempting to wash the 'hairspray' out.

'I took two showers today trying to get my hairspray out and it didn't budge.'

The New Yorker then decided to look at after-care instructions on the bottle when she realised her fatal mistake.

'I wanted to check and see what hairspray this is because it's really good,' she said.

The woman then held up a can of wood sealant.

'I think I put f**king wood shellac for woodwork in my f**king hair,' she swore profusely.

She finally begged her fans for reassurance.

'Please tell me this comes out.'

Many have drawn similarities to Tessica Brown, who sprayed her hair with Gorilla Glue in 2021, which left her with rigid, immovable locks for over a month.

Brown had to be treated by a plastic surgeon in order to completely rid the super glue from her hair.

Thousands provided helpful suggestions Louisa could attempt to get the unwanted product out of her hair.

'Paint thinner or acetone should work,' a woman said. 'Your hair will be dry but the wood shellac should come out.'

'Pure acetone is probably the only thing that will take it out, but you'll need to buy a deep conditioning mask because it can make your hair super dry.'

'Shellac only dissolves in 100 per cent alcohol, natural remedies like coconut or olive oil will not help.'

'Do not put anything else in your hair - just go to the hospital!'

'Girl, you need to leg it to the emergency room. Get off your phone!'

While others wondered how she could possibly make such a careless mistake.

'Have you learned nothing? The flashbacks to Gorilla Glue Girl re unreal.'

'I have never seen a hairspray can that looks like that - how could you make this mistake?'