WENDY Williams' brother has slammed her new inner circle and claimed the troubled host is "out there with the sharks."

In an on-camera interview, Tommy Williams exclusively revealed to The U. S. Sun what he thinks about Wendy's mental state, and how he feels about his famous sister's associates after some escorted the star on a trip to Florida earlier this month.

"She's so caught up with who she was and not who she's become, and apparently she'd like to get back to who she was because she can't stop talking about that person," her 54-year-old brother said.

"So let's all help you get back to that person, but we haven't been able to help because she's up in New York around people and we, the family, can't get her hooks in her properly to reel her into the shore.

"So she's staying out there with the sharks," Wendy's frustrated brother added.

Tommy then zeroed in on Wendy's manager Will Selby, who was along with the star in Flordia to film her reality show.

"I don't trust Will. I finally could say what I saw, I don't trust.

"He wasn't a man of very many words," Wendy's brother said, adding that the manager never introduced himself to either him or their elderly father, Thomas Williams Sr, while filming.

"And if you're coming around our father and you're putting this big piece together, and Wendy's been away all this time and your name is synonymous with Wendy then speak the f*** up.

"Speak up, say something! Who are you!?"

"I'm just trying to keep my family safe because as my father climbs in age, I'm in the position to do what needs to be done for my family.

"So Will, you don't have to talk to my father. And it was obvious you didn't have the balls to talk to me and say anything to me."

Tommy, who also claimed that Wendy is not well enough to be filming a reality show, also said of Will: "He seemed a little bit timid and out of sorts, and I guess if you're doing the wrong thing, you're not going to feel right,"

"I just know that he's not a man. He's soft. And he plays the backdrop. And that he's using Wendy," the star's protective brother concluded.

Wendy spent several days in Florida filming her visit with her family for her new reality show.

Tommy previously told The U. S. Sun: "This is not a woman who is in the right frame of mind to get a show going."

Tommy, 54, wondered why the film crew was even there.

"Why are you even here? Do you see the condition she's in? Does it look like she's ready to start a podcast for goodness sake? It doesn't."

"And we are all going to bear witness to this," Tommy said of the eventual release of the production.

"And the shock value is going to be where she was and where she is now?" Tommy questioned while motioning with his hands.

"Is that going to be the show? Is that it? Is that what my dad has to look forward to watching? To shove our face in the f***ing manure?"

Wendy's frustrated brother called her current condition "sad," and added that she's in "poor health."

In a response to a request for comment, Wendy's manager, Will, said: "Tommy didn’t say a word to me about any frustration so that doesn’t sound true."

Wendy's publicist did not respond to the request for comment.

Tommy had posted a video to his YouTube channel in between filming days about how things were going, but insisted he was trying to stay positive as the days went by.

The ex-TV host's reality show style project was first revealed by The U. S. Sun after she was spotted with a small film crew at her favorite restaurant Fresco by Scotto in midtown.

The former talk show host has suffered a series of personal and professional setbacks over the last year.

Wendy has not been on screen since she lost her long-running daytime staple The Wendy Williams Show in June 2022.

A financial guardian officially took control of her finances earlier that year following a series of health issues.

Last year Wendy also checked into rehab for "severe alcohol use" in California.

Wendy spent two months in 2022 in a Malibu rehab treating severe alcoholism, multiple sources confirmed.

The host, who had previously claimed she was sober, had a number of public incidents involving alcohol before she checked into the treatment center.

"Alcohol has been a real struggle for her over the past several years. She is battling severe alcohol abuse mixed with serious health issues," one insider close to the star claimed about her rehab stay.

"She has had numerous doctors who have told her for years 'If you drink, you'll die.' She never really wanted to stop and the people around her in New York allowed her to keep drinking."