Today Zonda unveiled their newest product offering, Livabl, North America’s largest listing platform exclusively for new construction homes. Livabl caters to both B2B and B2C clients with the mission of creating the best home-buying experience by offering the most innovative listing and digital solutions.

Formerly BuzzBuzzHome, the reimagined and expanded listing platform has been combined with Zonda’s expansive and proprietary new home construction data along with the innovative digital engagement solutions of Zonda Virtual to create a revolutionary, unmatched home listing platform.

“This is merely the beginning for Livabl,” said Justin LaJoie, Executive Vice President and General Manager of Livabl. “As we embark on providing the most comprehensive experience for new construction homes and condominiums throughout the nation. We are excited to strengthen our partnerships with builders throughout North America, to highlight their developments and offer a specialized shopping experience for new home and condominium buyers.”

Livabl operates under these three key tenets:

*  •    A data-backed approach that emphasizes the benefits of purchasing a new home

“Our mission is to create the best home buying experience by offering the most innovative listing solutions, made exclusively for builders,” said Jeff Meyers, CEO of Zonda.

Together with Zonda Virtual’s innovative technology of interactive floor plans, digital site maps, 3D and virtual reality home renderings, and sales engagement software, the launch of Livabl brings to life Zonda’s vision to lead the digital revolution of home buying.

“The new home shopping journey has long been fragmented,” added LaJoie. “We are thrilled to unify all builders on a single platform, specifically designed for new home buyers.”

Visit Livabl.com, ZondaHome.com or follow us on LinkedIn and Facebook for more information.

Zonda provides data-driven housing market solutions to the homebuilding industry. From builders to building product manufacturers, mortgage clients, and multifamily executives, we work hand-in-hand with our customers to streamline access to housing data to empower smarter decisions. As a leading brand in residential construction, our mission is to advance the home building industry, because we believe better homes mean better lives and stronger communities. Together, we are building the future of housing.

Livabl is North America’s most comprehensive and accurate listing platform, exclusively for new construction homes. Our free-to-list site is dedicated to helping builders showcase their homes and communities. We provide home buyers a clean, easy-to-use interface and innovative digital solutions optimized for the new home shopping experience. We make finding a new home easy.