Leo Sayer has married his partner Donatella Piccinetti in an intimate home ceremony.

The More Than I Can Say singer, 74, tied the knot with his girlfriend of nearly 40 years in his adopted home of Australia among their family and friends.

The former Celebrity Big Brother star confirmed the happy news on his Instagram account on Monday.

'After being partners for almost 39 years, Donatella Piccinetti and Leo Sayer got married in their garden in the Southern Highlands on Saturday 15th of April.

'It was a very private ceremony where the couple were joined by 40 of their closest friends. There was a reception lunch held afterwards at the famous Magpie Restaurant in Berrima.

'The weather was sunny, the bride was radiant, the groom looked handsome and they couldn't be happier with how the day went.'

A photo of the happy couple taken after they said 'I do' was shared by Marie Claire Australia founder Jackie Frank.

The hitmaker was previously married to Janice Lister, with the couple divorcing in 1985.

Leo, who has lived in Australia since 2009, launched his career in the UK in the 1970s, with his first seven singles all reaching the top 10.

The singer also found success in the US, with his second LP Just A Boy reacing number 16 in the charts while his fourth album Endless Flight reached the top 10.

Leo suffered a series of financial setbacks in the 80s when it was revealed much of his monetary success in the previous decade was lost after his manager Adam Faith made a series of bad investments.

Leo sued Faith for mismanagement and the case settled out of court in 1992, with the singer reportedly receiving a payout of £650,000.

After some time out of the spotlight, Leo made a memorable appearance on Celebrity Big Brother in 2007.

The star broke out of the house on Day 10 and clashed with  the show's security guards on the way out.

In a past interview with the Daily Mail, Leo admitted he was 'not proud' of the way he lost his temper.

He said: 'There were extremes of human behaviour. Lots of crazy! It's sad to say that it's all a set-up. They find a nice guy like Leo and make fun of him.

'When I broke out, I had bruises on my arm from where the security guy held me. It was horrible, and I lost my temper.

'I'm not very proud of what I said, but I wanted to break away from this guy who was really hurting me. I felt like suing them afterwards.'