When it comes to movies, 2023 seems to be the year that Disney is focused on announcing highly anticipated titles for multiple Disney fandoms.

In late 2022, we learned about the most anticipated 2023 theatrical release, but there are also new releases coming out every month on Disney+. In terms of movies, many fans are looking forward to Frozen 3 and the all-new Haunted Mansion film! An all-new trailer for an upcoming Disney+ show was just released TODAY, and if you’re a fan of the Muppets, you might love this one.

That’s right, an all-new Muppets series will be released on Disney+ on May 10th. Muppets Mayhem will feature fan-favorite celebrities alongside the beloved Muppets. Check out the new trailer here:

This comedy series will follow the Electric Mayhem Band, consisting of its original members: Dr. Teeth, Animal, Sgt. Floyd Pepper, Janice, Zoot, and Lips. The episodes will focus on the recording of the band’s first-ever studio-recorded album.

Celebrities we can expect to see along the way include Lil Nas X, Chris Stapleton, and Lilly Singh.

What do you think? Will you be tuning into this new series in May? In other Disney entertainment news, there will be a live-action remake of Lilo and Stitch AND Moana! We’ll continue to bring you the latest updates on these films, so stay tuned to DFB and follow along for more. Oh, and if you’re still hooked on our mention of Frozen 3 from earlier, you can click the link below.

Join the DFB Newsletter to get all the breaking news right in your inbox! Click here to Subscribe!

With more than , the 2023 DFB Guide to Walt Disney World Dining is full of tips and planning tools developed by Disney World experts over 30+ years of visits. We've done the research for you, so you'll know just which spots will uniquely suit your family's needs!

You'll get a Reference Guide, a 101 Plan, and a Printables and Resources Guide! With mini-reviews of ; an entire chapter on ; full ; and a ; you'll have everything you need to plan your best vacation yet.

Click here to  with code to save 25% off the cover price today!

Our guides are backed by a 100% money-back guarantee, so you have nothing to lose. 🙂

Are you looking forward to this movie? Let us know in the comments!