ACTOR Michael Fassbender is set to make a shock acting return after a career shake-up.

The Kerry native is set to star in a new gritty drama alongside a number of big Irish names.

The film will be an adaptation of Kevin Barry's book Night Boat to Tangier.

The Irish star hasn't starred in a feature film since 2019 when he had a role in X-Men: Dark Phoenix.

Fassbender surprised fans when he previously revealed he would be stepping back from acting.

The star took up a career in motorsport and last year he was in a horror crash when the Porsche he was driving hit the barrier during a competition in France.

The car spun out of control at high speed during the star's fourth lap causing the incident but he managed to drive back to the pits unscathed.

Porsche revealed Fassbender was given a red flag for the crash and that he lost the rear of his car.

The 46-year-old spoke out about the smash and said his dream turned into a "nightmare" in that moment.

But it seems Michael is ready to put his acting shoes back on as he is stepping back into the limelight.

The actor will be joined on screen by Irish names Domhnall Gleeson and Ruth Negga.

Set in Spain and Ireland, the story follows Maurice (Fassbender) and Charlie (Gleeson), a pair of gangsters from Ireland.

Drug-smugglers, partners with a long history of violence and intertwined personal lives, they’re back in southern Spain re-visiting old haunts, old flames and dangerous local criminals.

The gangsters are searching for Maurice’s estranged daughter, Dilly.

Maurice and Charlie are an intimidating and sometimes extremely violent pair who like to banter but Cynthia, played by the IFTA-winning and Tony-nominated Ruth Negga, is the brains behind their operation and has a complicated relationship with both men.

Fassbender is the executive producer on the film.

Recently, Irish F1 legend Eddie Jordan claimed he was once told off by a BBC producer for speaking to Michael Fassbender in Irish.

The former team principle was working with the broadcaster at the time of the Canadian Grand Prix in 2013.

A guest at the race was the Kerry-native leading to the two of them meeting on the grid.

After scrambling around the grid to find Fassbender for a live on-air interview, he eventually found him but greeted him as Gaeilge.

Jordan said: "Micheál, conas atá tú?" to which Fassbender responded: "Tá mé go maith, agus tú féin?"

That was as far as the conversation went before they went back to English, but it was enough for him to get in trouble with Mark Wilkin, who was an executive producer with the BBC from 2008 - 2016.