Why We Believe You Should Be Investing In Private Markets During Down Equity MarketsA key consideration for investors when building and maintaining their desired strategic asset allocation target to private markets is their ongoing commitment strategy. Challenging market environments provide opportunities for investors, creating conditions that allow more room to make acquisitions at a discount.Ultimately, in private markets, the best investment opportunities can arise in a time of declining equity markets, rising interest rates and economic uncertainty.   In private markets, the best investment opportunities can arise in a time of declining equity markets, rising interest rates and economic uncertainty Analysis of past performance has shown that the best vintages are those that start during recessions or soon after  Secondary private equity interests are trading at steeper discounts to NAV and we believe yields available in private credit present investors with a compelling entry point   A key consideration for investors when building and maintaining their desired strategic asset allocation target to private markets is their ongoing commitment strategy. Private markets strategies are typically implemented via closed-end fund structures where capital is called down during a fund’s investment period (typically the first 3-6 years). Portfolio company investments are made and capital is subsequently distributed back to investors as companies are sold (typically in years 4-10) of the fund’s life. Given this dynamic where investments are made in one economic environment and sold in another, a fund’s vintage year can have a meaningful impact on returns. The current environment of economic uncertainty, increasing interest rates and declining equity markets presents a particularly attractive environment to be committing capital to private markets. In this article we will consider some of the key considerations as to why we believe 2023 is looking to be an attractive vintage year across private markets including private equity, secondaries and private credit.  Exhibit 1 below highlights median global buyout internal rate of returns (IRRs) for the 26 vintage years from 1993 to 2018.1 As seen, historical performance has shown that the best vintages are those following challenging economic conditions and negative equity markets, such as the aftermath of the internet bubble in the early 2000s, or the Global Financial Crisis in 2008.   Another key consideration is that entry multiples for private companies are currently lower than their public market counterparts. Exhibit 2 highlights public vs. private valuation multiples since 2010 on an enterprise value (EV) / revenue basis.2 Notwithstanding that since 2010 private companies have on average traded at a 20% discount relative to S&P 500 constituents, at the end of 2022, private companies traded 40% cheaper than public companies on an EV / revenue basis. Given this attractive valuation environment, deploying capital with high quality general partners should drive strong performance for the 2023 vintage year.    Challenging market environments provide opportunities for investors, creating conditions that allow more room to make acquisitions at a discount. This trend is consistent with previous recessions or distressed environments which can create great opportunities for secondary strategies. By focusing on secondary investments and related strategies, we believe there are numerous opportunities to provide liquidity to the market and attractive returns for investors. One element that is affecting the secondary market is the denominator effect. Equity and bond valuations have fallen significantly, and this has affected the strategic asset allocation of institutional investors, forcing them to create liquidity from various sections of their portfolios. In these instances, private markets managers can step in as liquidity solutions providers while delivering to their investor’s investment opportunities that can exploit an environment characterized by rising interest rates, fewer exit opportunities and liquidity strains. Looking at opportunities on the secondary side, we usually see that traditional private markets funds start exchanging owners three and five years after launch, because this is the time when the portfolio has sufficiently developed and there is enough portfolio visibility for sellers and buyers to gain comfort transacting. So, if we look at the recent tremendous global interest in private equity in the last few years, we can anticipate that an incredible amount of assets will reach the secondary market. In addition to some of the limited partners (LP) interests that have started to trade at deeper discounts to net asset value, we are also seeing continued growth in general partners (GPs) continuation solutions. Essentially, managers looking for sources of liquidity for their existing portfolios may be attractive to buyers on the secondary market.  When considering credit, we would highlight that spreads and yields have increased significantly since the beginning of 2021. Exhibit 3 shows the spread over base rate and yield on new issue leveraged buy-out (“LBO”) loans.3 In the case of spreads over the base rate, these have increased from 387 basis points (bps) in 2021 to 514 bps in 2022. In addition, yields have increased from 4.7% to 9.86% over the same period. Given that loans in private credit are typically floating rate, investors are poised to benefit from participating in higher levels of absolute returns (unlike fixed rate instruments that can lose value when interest rates rise) along with protection from inflation. Exhibit 3: Spread over base rate and yield on new issue LBO loans  In addition, there is $554 billion in upcoming maturities from 2024-2026 that will need to be rolled over at significantly higher rates.4 Given these current market dynamics, we believe private credit provides investors with highly attractive entry points and the potential for downside management through the application of stronger covenants as part of credit agreements.  Ultimately, in private markets, the best investment opportunities can arise in a time of declining equity markets, rising interest rates and economic uncertainty. As such, we believe 2023 could be an opportune time to commit capital to private markets including private equity, secondaries and private credit. Analysis of past performance has shown that the best vintages are those that start during recessions or soon after. In addition, secondary private equity interests are trading at steeper discounts to NAV and yields available in private credit present investors with a compelling entry point. It is precisely during these difficult market environments that top tier private markets managers can underwrite investments with the potential to deliver attractive returns to investors.      These views are subject to change at any time based upon market or other conditions and are current as of the date at the top of the page. The information, analysis, and opinions expressed herein are for general information only and are not intended to provide specific advice or recommendations for any individual or entity. This material is not an offer, solicitation or recommendation to purchase any security. Forecasting represents predictions of market prices and/or volume patterns utilizing varying analytical data. It is not representative of a projection of the stock market, or of any specific investment. Nothing contained in this material is intended to constitute legal, tax, securities or investment advice, nor an opinion regarding the appropriateness of any investment. The general information contained in this publication should not be acted upon without obtaining specific legal, tax and investment advice from a licensed professional. Please remember that all investments carry some level of risk, including the potential loss of principal invested. They do not typically grow at an even rate of return and may experience negative growth. As with any type of portfolio structuring, attempting to reduce risk and increase return could, at certain times, unintentionally reduce returns. The information, analysis and opinions expressed herein are for general information only and are not intended to provide specific advice or recommendations for any individual entity. Frank Russell Company is the owner of the Russell trademarks contained in this material and all trademark rights related to the Russell trademarks, which the members of the Russell Investments group of companies are permitted to use under license from Frank Russell Company. The members of the Russell Investments group of companies are not affiliated in any manner with Frank Russell Company or any entity operating under the "FTSE RUSSELL" brand. The Russell logo is a trademark and service mark of Russell Investments. This material is proprietary and may not be reproduced, transferred, or distributed in any form without prior written permission from Russell Investments. It is delivered on an "as is" basis without warranty.    Editor's Note: The summary bullets for this article were chosen by Seeking Alpha editors.This article was written byRussell Investments is a leading global investment solutions firm with $326.9 billion in assets under management (as of 3/31/2021) and $2.8 trillion in assets under advisement (as of 12/31/2020) for clients in 32 countries, The firm provides a wide range of investment capabilities to institutional investors, financial intermediaries, and individual investors around the world. Building on an 85-year legacy of continuous innovation to deliver exceptional value to clients, Russell Investments works every day to improve people’s financial security. Headquartered in Seattle, Washington, Russell Investments has offices in 19 cities around the world, including in New York, London, Tokyo, and Shanghai.  Russell Investments’ ownership is composed of a majority stake held by funds managed by TA Associates with minority stakes held by funds managed by Reverence Capital Partners, Russell Investments' management and Hamilton Lane Incorporated.Frank Russell Company is the owner of the Russell trademarks contained in this material and all trademark rights related to the Russell trademarks, which the members of the Russell Investments group of companies are permitted to use under license from Frank Russell Company. The members of the Russell Investments group of companies are not affiliated in any manner with Frank Russell Company or any entity operating under the “FTSE RUSSELL” brand.To ensure this doesn’t happen in the future, please enable Javascript and cookies in your browser.Is this happening to you frequently? Please report it on our feedback forum.If you have an ad-blocker enabled you may be blocked from proceeding. Please disable your ad-blocker and refresh.