Jeopardy! is all set to return with a new episode on Tuesday, April 18, 2023, bringing back the recently crowned Daniel Ciarrocchi. As fans know, Ben Chan, who was supposed to play his fourth game last night, did not make an appearance because of some health problems, paving way for three new contestants. Ben was the first contestant in weeks with a promising streak. Sadly, fans will now have to wait a while longer to find a champion who finally manages to create a memorable streak.

In the upcoming episode of the game show, Daniel Ciarrocchi, a writer from Baltimore, Maryland, the one-day champion, will face off against Deb Bilodeau, a winemaker from Oakland, California, and Jeremy Felton, a chemist from Cary, North Carolina. Daniel Ciarrocchi won $16,001 on his first day, which is quite a respectable amount. He will surely try to build on this in the upcoming episode.

Jeopardy! is one of the most popular game shows in the world. It originally began in the early 1960s and has since then managed to continue its breathtaking run, becoming one of the most popular shows in the world. Its globe-trotting popularity is primarily because of its engaging nature and offbeat format. Additionally, the final round of the game show is also one of the primary reasons for this immense popularity.

In the final round of the game show, Jeopardy! fans can participate in the game by guessing the correct answer to the final question ahead of the episode's air time. This is one of the most intriguing aspects of the game show. It not only gives a good avenue for contestants to test their trivia skills but also makes them a part of the game show.

But guessing the correct answer every day can be quite a cumbersome process. To ease this process, we have compiled the question, answer, and other relevant details from the upcoming episode below.

The final question for the upcoming round of the show reads:

This question is from the category "Oscars." This is quite a narrow topic compared to many others. But this particular question is on the more difficult side.

In the final round of the show, participants are provided with the solution and they have to figure out the question. This makes things much more interesting in most cases.

The clue and solution to the upcoming round's final question read as follows:

Clue: Born in 1932 & the son of a percussionist in the CBS radio orchestra, he’s been nominated for 53 Oscars.

Perhaps the greatest film composer of all time, John Williams was the son of Johnny Williams, who spent time as a drummer on CBS Radio and the Raymond Scott Quintette. Williams is noted for his composition in several Oscar-winning films.

The three contestants for the upcoming round are Daniel Ciarrocchi, a writer from Baltimore, Maryland, Deb Bilodeau, a winemaker from Oakland, California, and Jeremy Felton, a chemist from Cary, North Carolina.

Catch them in action on the upcoming round of Jeopardy!