Sun Run: Announcer and athlete Steve King gives participants a boost across the finish line   "This is a race for people with all sorts of abilities, not just for the people up front or positioning. It is an event that really brings a huge number of people together for a lot of different reasons.” — Steve King        /

THIS CONTENT IS RESERVED FOR SUBSCRIBERS ONLY Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.  Unlimited online access to articles from across Canada with one account Get exclusive access to the Vancouver Sun ePaper, an electronic replica of the print edition that you can share, download and comment on Enjoy insights and behind-the-scenes analysis from our award-winning journalists Support local journalists and the next generation of journalists      Subscribe now to read the latest news in your city and across Canada.  Unlimited online access to articles from across Canada with one account Get exclusive access to the Vancouver Sun ePaper, an electronic replica of the print edition that you can share, download and comment on Enjoy insights and behind-the-scenes analysis from our award-winning journalists Support local journalists and the next generation of journalists      Create an account or sign in to continue with your reading experience.  Access articles from across Canada with one account Share your thoughts and join the conversation in the comments  Get email updates from your favourite authors

We apologize, but this video has failed to load. Try refreshing your browser, or

tap here to see other videos from our team.     Sun Run: Announcer and athlete Steve King gives participants a boost across the finish line       The UK-born-and-raised King began announcing races in 1981. A lifelong runner himself, he fell into the side-hustle quite by accident, in his adopted hometown of Penticton.

Start your day with a roundup of B. C.-focused news and opinion delivered straight to your inbox at 7 a.m., Monday to Friday.         There was an error, please provide a valid email address.        By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails or any newsletter. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300    Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Sunrise presented by Vancouver Sun will soon be in your inbox.   We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again

“I started putting on races there so that I could race,” he said. “I used to be near or at the front of the field, so when I finished, I would grab the bullhorn and started calling everyone in.”    “In 1983, Penticton hosted the first Ironman distance triathlon in North America, and I was asked to be the announcer. We had our Peach Classic Triathlon that same year and I announced there, and then people started asking if I would announce cross-country ski races. And then the marathons started to appear.”  The 1994 Commonwealth Games, the 1999 Pan American Games, and Hawaiian Ironman World Championships, to name a few, followed.

An avid participant as well, King has finished in the top 20 in both the Vancouver and Victoria marathons, competed in Ironman and Ultraman triathlons, and finished the 89-km Comrades Marathon in South Africa and the Western States 100-Mile Endurance Run in the Sierra Nevada mountains.  He is also a member of the Centurion club, a club for people who have race-walked 100 miles within 24 hours in a formal race. In 2001 he became the second Canadian to complete the Badwater 135, a 217 km extreme running race in Death Valley, California. According to marathonhandbook.com, “No one has died running the Badwater 135, though lots of people sustain running injuries and hallucinate.”  His passion for running was sparked at the age of five, at primary school, and continued through boarding school and working on the London Stock Exchange. The latter led him to join an industry-related track-and-field club. After embarking on an international backpacking trip, he landed in Penticton, where he met his wife, Jean. After backpacking for three years, they settled in Oliver and then moved to Penticton.

He continued to run. But in the late ’70s, running was a lonely pastime.  “Often, you were the only person running in the streets,” he said.  In 1980 he started a running club in Penticton after encountering several people from the town at an eight-mile race called Greenwood to Midway. The club, the Penticton Pounders, is still going strong today, and boasts about 140 members.  At the time, the science and knowledge of running was far behind what it is today.  “There were a lot of people who had gone before me that I had a great deal of respect for,” he said.  “But I did my own training. Up until probably the late ’70s and early ’80s there were very few aid stations, for instance, if any. It was considered somewhat wimpy if you took anything during the course of a marathon. Obviously, that changed dramatically.”

Back then, he couldn’t have envisioned an event the size of the Sun Run, which in 2007 boasted over 54,000 participants. In 2019, over 43,000 people signed on.  “There have been a number of changes over the years in the route. Other changes have been in terms of timing, aid stations, and the crowds, going from 3,500 that first year to the tens of thousands now. It’s been extraordinary to see the sheer volume of people coming through the finish line especially after the first hour. It’s just a stunning to watch.”  Now 74, King works full-time in Penticton as a clinical counsellor specializing in addictions and trauma at Pathways Addictions Resource Centre. He is the originator of the Detachment Technique, an approach to eradicating shock and trauma in first responders and military personal in under 10 hours. He is also the author of four ebooks on these issues (for more info, visit steve-king.ca).

He still runs, but shorter distances than in the past.  “I had a lung issue after picking up a virus some years back, and that has restricted my ability to run well,” King said.  “I do get out every day and do something. During the winter I usually do an hour of either running, walking, or cycling indoors. But I like to get outdoors in the summers. I love the sunshine. I still do a 5k park run here on Saturdays whenever I can.”  One aspect of the Sun Run that he enjoys is its accessibility to runners, and walkers, of all stripes.  “We are usually there at the finish line from start to finish, for about three-and-a-half hours,” said King. He’s been announcing the race since the early ’90s.  “And often, the last people are taking off from the start line after the first runners pass the finish line. Some people take three hours to finish the 10k. You’re never going to find yourself way off by yourself. In other words, this is a race for people with all sorts of abilities, not just for the people up front or positioning. It is an event that really brings a huge number of people together for a lot of different reasons.”   More news, fewer ads: Our in-depth journalism is possible thanks to the support of our subscribers. For just $3.50 per week, you can get unlimited, ad-lite access to The Vancouver Sun, The Province, National Post and 13 other Canadian news sites. Support us by subscribing today: The Vancouver Sun | The Province.

This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.