You may be trying to access this site from a secured browser on the server. Please enable scripts and reload this page.

You may be trying to access this site from a secured browser on the server. Please enable scripts and reload this page.

Sedentary Time and Symptoms in Breast Cancer Patients during Chemotherapy Using Ecological Momentary Assessment

To examine the relationship between daily fluctuations in symptoms and sedentary behavior (SB) during chemotherapy (CT) for breast cancer.

Breast cancer patients (N = 68, M = 48.5 ± 10.4 yr) undergoing CT wore an activity monitor on their hip to assess daily SB and completed prompts assessing symptoms (affect, anxiety, depression, fatigue, pain, and physical and cognitive functioning) for 10 consecutive days (3 d pre-CT, day of, and 6 d post-CT) at the beginning, middle and end cycles of CT. Mixed models assessed the bidirectional between-person (BP) and within-person (WP) associations of current day symptoms with minutes of SB measured on 1) the same day and 2) the next day, controlling for relevant covariates.

Within person same-day results revealed a significant association between affect, anxiety, fatigue, physical functioning, pain, and cognitive functioning and same-day SB. Worse than average symptom ratings on a given day were associated with more SB that day. There was a significant WP relationship between previous-day anxiety, depression, and physical function and next-day SB (i.e., worse than average symptom ratings the previous day were associated with more SB the next day). Within person same-day results revealed a significant association between same-day SB and affect, anxiety, fatigue, pain, physical functioning, and cognitive functioning. The WP relationships were significant for previous-day SB and next-day affect and pain (i.e., higher than average SB associated with lower ratings). Relationships persisted when controlling for moderate-to-vigorous physical activity. There were no significant BP results.

Higher symptom ratings were associated with increased SB and higher SB was associated with worse symptoms. Future work should identify SB reduction intervention approaches tailoring to daily symptom burden during CT for breast cancer.

Copyright © 2022 by the American College of Sports Medicine

You can read the full text of this article if you:

Longitudinal Sedentary Time and Symptoms in Breast Cancer Patients during Chemotherapy Using Ecological Momentary Assessment

Thought you might appreciate this item(s) I saw in Medicine & Science in Sports & Exercise.

Your message has been successfully sent to your colleague.

Some error has occurred while processing your request. Please try after some time.

Export All Images to PowerPoint File

Thought you might appreciate this item(s) I saw in Medicine & Science in Sports & Exercise.

Your message has been successfully sent to your colleague.

Some error has occurred while processing your request. Please try after some time.

Search for Similar Articles

You may search for similar articles that contain these same keywords or you may                 modify the keyword list to augment your search.

Data is temporarily unavailable. Please try again soon.