Splash Mountain at Disneyland to close May 31

When Splash Mountain at Walt Disney World closed in January to make way for a new “Princess and The Frog” themed attraction, guests wondered when the California version would follow suit, and now we know Splash Mountain at Disneyland will close on May 31, 2023.

We recently reported that work is well underway on the reimagined attraction at Magic Kingdom, so we’re not completely surprised that construction on Splash Mountain at Disneyland will start before summer, as both reimagined attractions are expected to open in late 2024.

Seeking to remove the “Song of the South” storyline, Imagineers have created a new story for Tiana’s Bayou Adventure that picks up after the fairy tale ending of “Princess and the Frog.”

According to the Disney Parks Blog, “The enchantment of the bayou will illuminate with a celebration during Mardi Gras season hosted by Princess Tiana and Prince Naveen” – and the post also reveals, the two-hundred-year-old Bayou Fairy Godmother, Mama Odie, will “reprise her role as the catalyst to that magic.”

“Walt Disney Imagineering creating an original, next chapter story for Tiana,” wrote WDI’s Kevin Rafferty, Jr. in the Disney Parks Blog. “Within the attraction queue, guests will discover that she continues to grow her business with Tiana’s Foods – an employee-owned cooperative. Combining her talents with those of the local community, Tiana has transformed an aging salt mine and built a beloved brand.”

During the ride, guests will join Tiana and her friends as she prepares for a Mardi Gras celebration to thank her community for their support of her business ventures, which at Disneyland already includes Eudora’s Chic Boutique and the upcoming Tiana’s Palace Restaurant, both located in the park’s New Orleans Square area.

Now that construction will be underway in both theme parks soon, here’s what Disney says we can expect from the new attraction:

Familiar faces from the film, including Princess Tiana, Prince Naveen, Mama Odie, Louis, Eudora, Charlotte, “Big Daddy,” the King and Queen of Maldonia, and Prince Ralphie

Voice cast from the film reprising their roles, including Bruno Campos as Prince Naveen, Michael Leon Wooley as Louis, and Anika Noni Rose as Princess Tiana

Brand-new cast of original Disney characters with distinct names and personalities

Dozens of entirely new Audio-Animatronics figures

New, original music alongside favorite tunes from the film

The scent of beignets being prepared for the party as part of the attraction queue

The final day of operation for Splash Mountain at Disneyland will be May 30, 2023. Click here for more information.