THE wedding preparations continue for Charity Dingle and Mackenzie Boyd and soon lead them straight to prison.

Meanwhile, could Gabby Thomas have figured out what Nicky Milligan is up to? Here's what you can expect from ITV's Emmerdale tonight.

Charity Dingle (played by Emma Atkins) may have recovered from her scrap with Moira Dingle (Natalie J. Robb), she's still wondering how she can find replacement wedding rings.

Thankfully for her, it doesn't take long for Moira to announce she's found the initial rings and Charity is over the moon to be able to get on with the wedding surprise she's thought of for Mackenzie Boyd (Lawrence Robb).

The hunk is stunned when he's faced with a replica of the A-team van and the pair set off on their own adventure.

Emotions boil over and things start to get steamy for Mack and Charity, who are both in fancy dress.

But when they stop their van for some time together, the happy couple are cornered by a suspicious PC Swirling.

They soon learn the van was used in a robbery and the copper arrests them on the spot.

Charity and Mack are thrown into cells and PC Swirling makes it clear that they should get comfortable - they won't be going anywhere anytime soon.

The pub landlady is convinced they were set up by Moira - but is this really the case?

While their wedding day could be ruined, Mack will soon have a lot more on his mind as Chloe Harris' (Jessie Elland) waters break during a pamper evening with Sarah Sugden (Katie Hill).

Elsewhere in the Dales, Nicky Milligan (Lewis Cope) is ready to take his and his father Caleb's plan to the next level and tie the knot with Gabby Thomas (Rosie Bentham).

But while he's eager to walk down the aisle for all the wrong reasons, the young mother begins to suspect appearances could be deceiving and she quizzes Nicky on why he's so keen to marry her.

Has Nicky been found out?

Many faces have come and gone over the years and the line-up has drastically changed since the Yorkshire-based soap's first instalment.

The Dingles have been long-standing residents of the eponymous village with Jeff Hordley as their most famous family member, tough man Cain Dingle.

Actors Lucy Pargeter, James Hooton, Mark Charnock, Dominic Brunt, Eden Taylor-Draper and Lisa Riley are all part of his immense on-screen family.

The clan has often faced the wrath of the Tates with Claire King being Home Farm's main resident throughout the decades.

She's accompanied by on-screen husband Dean Andrews but is also never too far away from Dawn Fletcher actress Olivia Bromley and her Emmerdale husband Billy Fletcher, portrayed by Jay Kontzle.

As mentioned above, the cast has drastically changed since day one, here's where you can keep track of all the comings and goings in the village.

The iconic program celebrated fifty years on our screens in October, 2022.

Emmerdale was first broadcasted on ITV on October 16, 1972.

It was initially known as Emmerdale Farm until 1989 and the legendary village where all the drama unfolds was called Beckindale until 1994.

The show was first filmed in the village of Arncliffe in North Yorkshire.

Three years later, in 1975, the fictional village moved to West Yorkshire in order to cut production costs.

The Emmerdale set was then located in another real-life village, Esholt in Shipley.

The exterior scenes of the soap were filmed at Esholt for 22 years but by 1998 local residents had grown tired of the production crew’s presence and the tourists the soap was attracting.

A replica of Esholt was set on the outskirts of Leeds for external filming and interior scenes are shot at ITV’s studio in the city.

The Dales have been shaken by many dramatic events throughout the years which included murders, a plane crash and even a siege in the village's iconic pub, The Woolpack.

Serial killers have roamed the streets of Emmerdale but none quite matched sinister nurse Meena Jutla who terrorised villagers for months before eventually being found out.

But while some cause trouble in the dark, others do it in plain sight and exert power over the village - such is the case of ruthless businesswoman Kim Tate.

Emmerdale airs every weeknight, from Monday to Friday, at 7.30pm.

Viewers are treated to a 40-minute long episode on Thursdays.

They can catch up on all the drama on ITV's online hub, ITVX.