The Lower Kuskowkim School District held their District Native Youth Olympics Meet in Nightmute, Alaska this past weekend. Junior and senior high teams from Akiuk, Akula Kasigluk, Bethel, Chefornak, Eek, Kipnuk, Kwigillingok, Kongiganak, Newtok/Mertarvik, Nunapitchuk, Quinhagak, Tununak, and Tuntutuliak joined the Nightmute host team in their new school building.

Some stratospherically notable results include: Daylon Brown of Quinhagak hit 90” in the Alaskan High Kick, which was last year’s winning height at state by Colton Paul of Kipnuk (MEHS). Three varsity boys Sam Lewis of Kongiganak, Andrew Paul of Kipnuk, and Glenn Wassillie of Akula had a final reach of 62” in the 1-Arm Reach which is in state medal territory. Devon Mann of Kipnuk, last year’s Seal Hop state champion (113’ 8 ½”), is poised for another state gold medal. His winning hop at District was 134’ 7 5/16”.

On the girls’ side, Jordan Klejka of Bethel hit 74” in the Two Foot High Kick and is ready to defend her state title. She is the 2022 State champion winning with her kick of 68”. She also hit 84” at District in the 1-Foot High Kick and will be competing for gold at state. Katya Carl of Kwigillingok hit 67” in the Alaskan High Kick and will be seeking a medal in this event at state. Chefornak’s Destiny Panruk is in the running for a state medal with her reach of 56” in the 1-Arm Reach. Kipnuk’s Shawna Paul is also in the running for a spot on the podium at state. She hopped a distance of 127’ 9 3/4” in the girls Seal Hop at the District meet.

The Chefornak Shamans took home the first place team trophy with 109 points. In close second were the Kipnuk Falcons with 103 points, and in third were the Kwigillingok Eagles with 96 points.

The Sportmanship Award was awarded to the Kipnuk Falcons.

The individual All-Around Male Athlete award winner was Daylan Brown of Quinhagak. The All-Around Female Athlete honors was awarded to Cherish Carson of Nightmute.

The LKSD All Star NYO Team will be representing LKSD at the Senior NYO Games Finals in Anchorage, April 20-23, 2023. Great job to all of our student athletes.