Bullion. Directory precious metals analysis 19 April, 2023

By Keith Weiner

CEO at Monetary Metals

It’s the money supply dummy! No, it’s “real” interest rates! No, no, it’s mine production!

Then there are the non-theories, like the never-ending price manipulation narrative. Or the “global currency reset” which will usher in the age of “de-dollarization” and “gold price go up huge amount.” Set your watches for midnight, June 11th, 2021, er I mean May 4, 2022, umm wait no, August 7, 2023, yeah that’s the one!

We have written a lot of material to debunk these theories and non-theories over a lot of years. Now, for the first time, we have put the best of it into one place. Introducing How Not to Think About Gold, your field guide for navigating the gold market like a pro.

Why do we do it? We’ve sacrificed plenty of popularity points for calling out these hacks. We’re not masochists! We have our reasons, and they’re worth spelling out briefly.

First, the search for truth is its own reward. The truth is worth knowing, and worth defending.

Second, we’ve seen firsthand the harm that comes from swallowing these false narratives, hook, line, and sinker. Adopting wrong ideas about what drives gold prices can be harmful to your wealth, and your health! They can cause long-term holders to reactively buy or sell, and short-term traders to make costly mistakes.

Third, false theories do not serve gold investors, the gold industry, or anyone. They tarnish gold’s reputation. They are the reason gold is too often associated with tinfoil hats, than as the most liquid financial asset. And people wonder why it’s so under-owned!

Monetary Metals’ mission is to serve investors. We do that primarily by providing A Yield on Gold, Paid in Gold®. But we also do it through thoughtful research and analysis on gold and silver. That is our aim with this resource.

Debunking false theories about gold for over a decade has armed us with a sizable library of all the wrong ways to think, value, and understand gold and silver. We’re putting all of that experience into this paper so that you can have a reliable Gold Market Field Guide to navigate these often misunderstood markets.

Armed with the knowledge in this report you’ll be able to protect yourself and others from the financial harm that can come from the charlatanism that seeks to profiteer off the precious metals industry.

Our guide contains the eight most common fallacies which you’re likely to hear on your investing journey. Read our report and you’ll be able to spot them on your own and discern the good from the bad, the right from the wrong, the wheat from the chaff.

And best of all, you will be equipped with the right reasons for owning gold.

If you already own gold, you’ll have a better understanding of why you own it, which will protect you from reactionary selling, or buying. Or if you are looking to buy gold and silver for the first time, you will have a solid foundation to build upon.

That is knowledge that’s worth its weight in gold!

Click here to download your free copy of How Not to Think About Gold

Keith Weiner is founder and CEO of Monetary Metals, the groundbreaking investment company monetizing physical gold into an interest-bearing asset, paying yields in gold, not paper currency. Keith writes and speaks extensively, based on his unique views of gold, the dollar, credit, the bond market, and interest rates. He’s also the founder and President of the Gold Standard Institute USA. His work was instrumental in the passing of gold legal tender laws in the state of Arizona in 2017, and he regularly meets with central bankers, legislators, and government officials around the world.

This article was originally published here

Bullion. Directory or anyone involved with Bullion.Directory will not accept any liability for loss or damage as a result of reliance on the information including data, quotes, charts and buy/sell signals contained within this website. Please be fully informed regarding the risks and costs associated with trading in precious metals. Bullion.Directory advises you to always consult with a qualified and registered specialist advisor before investing in precious metals.