Many people recallfor either Sushmita Sen, who set realistic goals for every woman desiring to wear a chiffon saree, or Shah Rukh Khan and his action scenes. However,also stands out in my memory for Zayed Khan. He more than made up for hisdialoguedelivery with his good looks, and he continued to astound us in movies likeand many others. Zayed hasn't appeared in movies for a while, but that is set to change very soon. Zayed Khan surprised his fans by announcing his return to the Hindi cinema industry with a picture on Instagram, which took many of us on a trip down memory lane. Recently, the actor shared a bunch of pictures from his photoshoot and shared the good news with his fans.As soon as they heard the news, his supporters posted lovely commentson social media.

Zayed Khan is back with his revamped look, see pics

In his post, Zayed thanked his sisterSussanneKhan for styling him. In the pictures, he is seen sporting a white vest and cargo pants. He also expressed excitement about his new project. His post read, "Hello people! With your love & support,itsbeen “20 YEARS” for me in the industry. Asthen ,once again I’m excited to tell you guys that my new movie is just round the corner and Icantwait to share it with you guys!!!! Now, the next 20 years aregonnabe Kickass.!!!!"

In his most recent Instagram post, the actor just made a return suggestion. The actor uploaded a photo to Instagram showing off his newly chiselled body and describing his training regimen. The actor has undergone a complete transformation. Having said that, Zayed recently posted images from a fresh photo shoot withDabooRatnani, an accomplished photographer. Zayed chose a sophisticated blazer with a flamboyant touch for his photo shoot.His enormous, reflective grey jacket has pockets, buckle straps, drawstring cuffs, and openable, dark-colouredzippers on the sleeves. His jacket is a piece from the Rise Among line. He wore sunglasses, black denim jeans, and a jacket. He appeared as sleek as ever with his side-swept hair and clean-shaven appearance.

Also Read: EXCLUSIVE: Zayed Khan opens up on the tough time he went through when his films didn’t work at the box office: “Some actors move on to the next movie. But some actors are not so lucky as they don’t have the next movie”

Catch us for latest Bollywood News, New Bollywood Movies update, Box office collection, New Movies Release , Bollywood News Hindi, Entertainment News, Bollywood Live News Today & Upcoming Movies 2023 and stay updated with latest hindi movies only on Bollywood Hungama.