A City of Wanneroo Central-West ward councillor has called time on local politics just six months shy of elections.

Natalie Sangalli joined the city in 2015, first serving in the North-Coast ward and then the Central-West ward after being re-elected in 2019.

She was deputy mayor between 2017 and 2019.

She advised the CEO of her resignation effective immediately on April 3.

Ms Sangalli declined to comment when contacted by PerthNow.

The end of her tenure comes just less than a week after the city announced long-serving CEO Daniel Simms will resign to accept the top job at the City of Cockburn.

While the City of Cockburn confirmed Mr Simms will take up his new role in the new financial year, the City of Wanneroo has yet to confirm when his last day will be.

Mrs Sangalli’s councillor role will remain vacant after a decision at Tuesday night’s members’ briefing session.

“Since the completion of a report, we have received advice from the WA Electoral Commission regarding our request for an approval for the position to be kept vacant ... that it is possible,” City of Wanneroo director assets Harminder Singh said.

Under the Local Government Act 1995, the city must either allow the vacant councillor office to remain unfilled until the next election in October or hold an extraordinary election.

High school teacher Bronwyn Smith was elected to the North-East ward in an extraordinary election at the end of last year, taking over the seat left vacant when Linda Aitken became mayor in September.

There is currently no provision in the city’s budget for another extraordinary election and funds would need to come from the city’s current and future operating budget.

Ms Aitken said Mrs Sangalli’s dedication to her community had directly benefitted many residents and her fellow councillors.

“Working alongside Natalie for almost eight years, I know that Natalie is recognised as a highly regarded member of our community and I would like to personally thank her for the contributions she has made to our city,” she said.

“I would also like to extend the appreciation of City of Wanneroo council and local community members for Natalie’s commitment to delivering positive change for residents and local businesses.

“Natalie’s passion, humour and commitment will be missed by fellow councillors and I wish her all the very best for the future. On behalf of council and the community, I thank her for her service.”

Cr Helen Berry, who is now the Central-West ward’s only representative, also extended her appreciation in a social media post.

“Her passion for community is second to none and I’d like to thank her for her guidance and unwavering commitment to our local community,” she said.

“I wish Nat all the best and it’s been a privilege to share the ward with her.”