Elon Musk created quite the storm when he purchased Twitter back in October 2022, and has rarely been out of the spotlight since.

The South African-born businessman, also famous for founding SpaceX and designing Tesla vehicles, has transformed the social media platform under his stewardship, but it has not always been for the better.

Since buying Twitter for $44 billion, its valuation has plummeted by more than half, and is currently worth just over $20 billion.

Still, Musk has not been deterred by the loss, but did acknowledge that he had faced numerous challenges since purchasing the company.

From changing blue ticks and lifting bans on controversial accounts to bringing his pets into the boardroom, here are six things that Elon Musk has changed about Twitter.

Musk's current pinned tweet on his official Twitter account is of his dog, Floki, a Shiba Inu, wearing a shirt reading 'CEO'.

The South African did so in reference to the controversy that has surrounded his stewardship of the social media network, responding to a poll he created, asking users if he should step down as CEO of Twitter.

After 57.5% of people voted 'Yes', Musk said in a BBC interview, 'I did stand down. I keep telling you I'm not the CEO of, my dog is the CEO of Twitter.'

Under previous rules, a number of high-profile accounts were banned after being embroiled in controversy.

American rapper Kanye West - now known as Ye - was banned after sharing anti-Semitic posts to the platform. Social media personality Andrew Tate, who is currently being held in Romania over sex trafficking offences, was also barred from accessing the site.

Donald Trump was also banned from Twitter, after the former American president's tweets were said to have incited the Capitol Hill riots in January 2021.

Tate and Trump had their access to Twitter reinstated since Musk purchased the company, although Trump has not published a tweet since the Capitol Hill riots.

In November 2022, Musk also suspended comedian Kathy Griffin and former American football player Chris Kluwe from Twitter for impersonating him.

It took Musk just over a month to bring a subscription service to Twitter, after he introduced Twitter Blue in November 2022.

Costing £6.50 or £9 per month depending upon the level of subscription chosen, subscribers can access bonus features including an edit button, boosted visibility and fewer ads.

Since being rolled out, it has not attracted extreme interest, but there has been no official news as yet about the number of users who pay for the service.

According to its webpage, Twitter Blue 'is an opt-in, paid subscription that adds a blue checkmark to your account and offers early access to select features, like Edit Tweet.'

The Twitter CEO confirmed the final deadline for the company to remove 'legacy' blue ticks will be Thursday, 20 April.

It's believed the date is a sly reference to cannabis, which is associated with the number 420 because of the time of the day it is traditionally smoked.

The creation of Twitter Blue is not merely a new service that will give users access to certain additional features.

Previously, the blue checkmark at the end of an account holder's name was used to indicate an account belonging to someone of public interest – such as a celebrity, politician or journalist.

The whole point of the blue checkmark was that it could verify a notable person's identity and distinguish him or her from an imposter.

Under Musk's ownership, however, the tick is now simply an indicator that an account is subscribed to Twitter Blue.

Pre-existing blue ticks have been replaced by silver and gold ticks. Recognised international brands, such as Apple, have a gold tick, whilst the official account of the United Nations has a silver tick.

The upcoming changes to Twitter means that, unless users pay for Twitter Blue, they will not be able to vote in polls or use two-factor authentication.

In January, Twitter's user experience received a drastic redesign. The site is now split into two separate tabs - called 'For You' and 'Following'.

For You – the same name as a feature on TikTok – shows tweets from accounts users do and don't follow, all out of order and boosted by an algorithm.

Meanwhile, the 'Following' tab shows tweets from accounts users follow in reverse chronological order, with those most-recently posted at the top.

Users can now click or swipe between the two tabs, depending on how they want to see tweets.

Twitter used to be a fairly simple site - you'd follow accounts and then you'd see their tweets.

But the For You tab shows tweets from people that you don't even follow.

What's more, For You is now the default tab, meaning it will automatically be selected when users open the app.

This will still happen even if they were on the Following tab when they last closed the app.

Since taking over Twitter in November 2022, Elon Musk has laid off an enormous number of staff at the company.

Twitter laid off another 200 employees, around 10 per cent of its remaining workforce, in February 2023.

The layoffs brought Twitter's workforce down to under 2,000 - a sharp fall from the 7,500 employed when the billionaire first took over.

Musk defended the decision to fire 3,700 people during the first wave of job cuts at Twitter, saying: 'There is no choice when the company is losing over $4mn/day.'

These cuts were made in line with Musk's desire to turn Twitter into a more hardcore work environment, warning staff they will need to be on board or leave the company.

The billionaire has been shrewd and direct about the financial turmoil facing the company and made clear prior to his official acquisition that cost-cutting would be the number one priority.