Community Briefs provides a listing of events and activities going on in and around the Oakdale, Riverbank and Escalon areas. To have an event featured, e-mail the information to mjackson@oakdaleleader.com.

The Stanislaus Wildlife Care Center celebrates spring with its annual Baby Animal Shower, with the event set for Saturday, April 15. They will have BBQ tri tip sandwiches, hot dogs, ice cream sundaes, face painting, T-shirts for sale, raffle, kid’s crafts, rock painting and wild barn owl pellets to dissect. The shower is scheduled from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m., at the Stanislaus Wildlife Care Center inside Fox Grove Fishing Access, 1220 Geer Road, Hughson. Admission is free but gifts of any of the following items are appreciated: Paper Towels, Puppy Pads, Postage Stamps, Receiving Blankets, Dawn Dishwashing Liquid, Playtex Dish Washing Gloves (Small and Medium), and HE Liquid Laundry Soap. Cash donations are gratefully accepted as well and new volunteers are always needed.

The Oakdale Quilters Guild is a non-profit group organized for charitable and educational purposes. They currently make quilts and other handmade items for Quilts of Honor, Guardian House, Oak Valley Hospital Care Center, Olivia’s Closet, Cancer Center, and Community Hospice. Regular guild meetings are on the second Thursday of each month at Blossom Quilting, 7450 River Road, Oakdale at 6:30 p.m. Guests are welcome to join in for a visit. The next meeting will be on April 13. Additionally, the April class will be a tote bag with Kim. Class will be held at Blossom Quilting on Saturday, April 29 from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Available spots are limited, if you are interested in attending the class, call Jessica Gookin at 209-345-3357 or email oakdalequiltersguild@gmail.com.

More information about the group is available at www.facebook.com/oakdalequiltersguild.

Oakdale Community Bands present their April Concert and Dance on April 18 and 27, respectively. The Concert Band will be performing on Tuesday, April 18 and the Dance Band will follow the next week on Thursday, April 27. Both performances start at 6:30 p.m., at the Gladys L. Lemmons Senior Community Center at 450 E. A St., Oakdale. All are invited to attend these free events to listen, and on Thursday, April 27, dance or listen. Mark your April calendar for the “Live Music at the Lemmons Center” and spread the word to family and friends. Plan to attend and enjoy the fun.

All interested are welcome to join TOPS (Taking Off Pounds Sensibly) a weight loss support group that meets in Oakdale every Monday morning from 8:30 a.m. to 10 a.m.; they have a new location for 2023, meeting at 7450 River Road, Suite 4, Oakdale. This group is open to the public and anyone interested in improving their life by losing weight can contact Audrey for more information, call 209-765-7838.

The Good Time Accordion Club members meet on a regular basis, the first Sunday of the month at 2:30 p.m., hosted at the Escalon United Methodist Church, 2000 Jackson Ave., Escalon. Admission is $5; there are free refreshments provided. The club presents musicians of all levels and many musical styles. Anyone can bring an accordion and play or just come to enjoy listening to the musical performances. The upcoming 2023 gatherings are scheduled for May 7, June 4, July 2, Aug. 6, Sept. 3, Oct. 1, Nov. 5 and Dec. 3.

Check out the Golden Agers dance group at the Riverbank Community Center on Wednesdays, 10 a.m. to 1:30 p.m., with dancing, socializing, live music and fun for all. All adults 55-plus are welcome. Just drop in to check it out or become a member. Fees are $5 for members and $6 for non-members. Membership is $15. The Community Center is at 3600 Santa Fe St., Riverbank.

Oakdale Widowed Persons Group invites you to join them the first Saturday of each month for breakfast at 9 a.m. and on the third Tuesday of each month for lunch at 1 p.m.; call for locations. All are welcome to join the group no matter how long ago you lost your spouse. For more information, contact Barbara at 209-322-2184.