Is the recommendation by U. S. Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene, R-Ga., for a “national divorce” already happening?

A column by Washington Secrets author Paul Bedard is providing evidence of that possibility.

Greene recently suggested the split because of the seemingly unbridgeable chasm between the extremist positions of leftist Democrats in America – and the more traditional values of Republicans.

The GOP, for example, thinks parents should make decisions for their children, there’s no need for taxpayers to pay for surgeries to mutilate the bodies of small children, and uncontrolled spending is not the way for government to operate.

Democrats advocate those life-altering transgender surgeries, virtually unlimited spending and the exclusion of parents from major life decisions involving their children.

“We need a national divorce,” Greene, the Georgia Republican posted on social media a few weeks ago. “We need to separate by red states and blue states and shrink the federal government. Everyone I talk to says this. From the sick and disgusting woke culture issues shoved down our throats to the Democrats’ traitorous America Last policies, we are done.”

WND CEO Joseph Farah, in a column, noted, “She’s just saying that Democrats are not capable or willing to be committed to things like the Constitution, simple ideas like ‘life’ instead of ‘death’…’”

WND is now on Trump’s Truth Social! Follow us @WNDNews

He continued, “Americans increasingly flaunt their differences of opinion over everything from gun rights to trans surgery (that is, permanent mutilation) for kids. But think about it. Never before in this country has there been such disagreement. There hasn’t been as much talk about getting a ‘divorce’ since the Civil War.”

Now Bedard reports that “national divorce” already appears to be happening “organically.”

“A new analysis of Census Bureau data shows that since the 2020 election year, nearly 2.6 million have moved out of counties won by President Joe Biden and into those won by former President Donald Trump,” he explained.

The analysis, from Issues and Insights, notes, “More than 61% of the counties that voted for Biden in 2020 lost population, while 65% of Trump-supporting counties gained population.”

Bedard noted, “Greene … has been calling for a red-blue ‘divorce’ that would cool the nation’s political anger by keeping like-minded people together. She has not advocated any ‘civil war’ and has gone out of her way to explain the continued need for a national government and military.”

And she told Bedard, “Whether we force a national divorce by legal means or not, the national divorce is already happening because conservative Americans will no longer tolerate the abuse, harassment, and hate by the Left.”

Some points to consider, from the analysis, “Of the 555 counties Biden won, 335 (or 61%) lost population due to internal migration, our analysis found. Of the 2,589 counties that Trump won, 1,675 (or 65%) gained population..”

Green also explained even Democrats are tired of extremism in their party.

“It’s also a sign that Democratic voters are tired of the extreme Left and are moving to red districts as well, but not necessarily will vote Republican. So that could bode very badly for the 2024 presidential election or purple states and statewide races. What that could mean is our country will shift bluer. Tragically. But that could also lead to a hard swing to the Right in the future after everyone suffers enough.”

IMPORTANT NOTE: Although millions of American parents send their precious children off to public school every day, imagining their kids’ days will be filled with reading, writing, arithmetic, science, history, sports and music, they’re not only in for a shock – but for total BETRAYAL. Today’s “public” (government) schools have become far-left ideological, political and religious indoctrination centers aimed at reprogramming and transforming America’s children.

Kids are being taught to HATE their own country and to see themselves and their parents as racists – or victims of racists. They are sexualized and corrupted, and many are groomed into the dark LGBT world, with almost 6,000 schools prohibiting parents from even hearing about their child’s transgender “transition.” In between all the far-left indoctrination and sexual corruption, teachers take time to scare children to death about the near-term end of life on earth due to “catastrophic climate change.” Another lie. But it’s all classic Marxism/communism, with even the “3 R’s” – reading, writing and arithmetic – now being corrupted with “woke,” “1984”-style madness.

Perhaps never has the true threat of today’s U. S. public school system been exposed as in the sensational April issue of WND’s critically acclaimed monthly Whistleblower magazine, titled “THE GREATEST BETRAYAL: How Marxism and madness have taken over America’s public school system.” Whistleblower is available in both the popular print edition and a state-of-the-art digital version, either single issues or discounted annual subscriptions.

Content created by the WND News Center is available for re-publication without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact [email protected].

SUPPORT TRUTHFUL JOURNALISM. MAKE A DONATION TO THE NONPROFIT WND NEWS CENTER. THANK YOU!

This article was originally published by the WND News Center.