Coronavirus | Mahbubabad/Hyderabad, April 19 (Maxim News): Coronavirus spreading in the districts of Telangana is worrying among the people.

In a private school in Garla Mandal of Mahabubabad district, 14 students and 4 teachers have been diagnosed as corona positive. The victims are quarantined there and treated. On the other hand, 8 students of Thorrur Social Welfare School have been diagnosed as Corna positive.

The increasing number of corona cases in the Warangal district is worrying. This effect is mainly in educational institutions. Corona broke out in a private school hostel in Garla Mandal, Mahabubabad district. Three students who were sick in the hostel were taken to the primary treatment center, and two of them tested positive. As a result, all the students in the hostel were tested and 14 students and four staff members were diagnosed as infected with Corona. They were immediately taken to quarantine and treated. Tests are also being conducted for the rest.

On the other hand, the students of the Social Welfare Residential School in horror fell ill but were taken to the hospital and after being tested, some of them tested positive for Corona. A total of 70 students in the school were tested and out of them 9 students and one teacher tested positive. This alerted the district administration.

Corona bells are ringing in various hostels of the Mahabubabad district. In 15 days, 45 people were infected with a corona in four hostels. Due to this, the children are suffering mentally and are not able to write the exams properly. Corona tests are being conducted in collective hostels without observing physical distance in the course of conducting annual examinations for students since the beginning of summer in April.

The employees of the Medical and Health Department suspect that the use of washrooms, toilets, and kitchens together and the students staying together in one room is the cause of the spread of corona due to unsanitary conditions.

In hostels, when symptoms like cough, cold, and fever come to light, it has alerted and informed the relevant medical and health officials. As a result, the authorities were immediately alerted, a special camp was organized and those who tested positive for corona were kept in isolation rooms. (Maxim News)

Now you can get the latest stories from Indtoday on Telegram every day. Click the link to subscribe.  Click to follow Indtoday’s Facebook page and Twitter and Instagram. For all the latest Hyderabad News updates