Get ready to put on your sleuthing caps, this one has us really confused!

We’ve seen and heard about lots of changes recently with McDonald’s from adult happy meals, exclusive limited offerings in toys, and even changes to their core menu items, but this one thing McDonald’s did recently may just be the thing that keeps us up at night.

McDonald’s is giving us the entertainment we didn’t know we needed, and now we have all the questions.

i just got told a saucy secret, plz don’t text and ask me what it is pic.twitter.com/aMiZTm4cHP

Just double-checking you’re just as confused as we are, right? Cool. Well, we couldn’t resist texting because we were too invested at this point and this is what we got back.

After our initial text asking about the sauce, we were met with some standard messaging red tape but once we were past that and agreed to the texts, we got a confirmation and “thanks for subscribing to McD’s texts….” and then our only option was to wait.

And then, we got another message, this time because “Brian from legal” needed McD’s to know when it was ok to text us based on our timezone, and that was it. We were ghosted by McDonald’s, but hopefully not for long.

This also sparked a lengthy discussion between all of us about what exactly could McDonald’s be hinting at! Apparently, we weren’t the only ones that were just as intrigued by what McDonald’s is alluding to. Check out the responses from brands like Wheat Thins and Slim Jim.

Food brands weren’t the only ones getting in on the action. T-Mobile, Waze, and others are still throwing out guesses and asking for further clues.

How long do we need to stay in suspense, McDonald’s?! There were a few guesses from other users asking if they were alluding to bringing back popular sauces McDonald’s has produced in the past, but nothing solid from the brand as they’ve gone mum on any hints further.

For now, we’ll all have to sit in suspense until McDonald’s is ready to expand on this hint at a bigger announcement to come. As always, stay tuned with us at AllEars for the latest!

Join the AllEars.net Newsletter to stay on top of ALL the breaking Disney News! You'll also get access to AllEars tips, reviews, trivia, and MORE! Click here to Subscribe!

What are your guesses about this ‘secret sauce’? Leave them in the comments below!