The psychology and mood that someone has when they go shopping are critical. Contrary to online sales, the traditional way of shopping is an exciting procedure. Today we will talk about the four categories of clients, how to recognize them, and what to expect from them.

The psychology and mood that someone has when they go shopping are critical. Contrary to online sales, the traditional way of shopping is an exciting procedure. Today we will talk about the four categories of clients, how to recognize them, and what to expect from them.

Those who need to buy

People who have gone out of their houses to buy something have not gone to buy anything. They are looking for something in particular. It will either be cream to cook that delicious recipe with chicken and rice or the right color of shoes they will have to wear that fit with the black dress they are about to wear at their friend’s wedding. Both cases have one thing in common. The background is ready, and there is just one small detail that needs to be added to complete the picture. It is rare that someone will go out to create a new set of clothes and accessories. The most common scenario is that they need something in particular. Smart buyers will make a list of what is missing from their closets, office, or whatever and will make sure they will stick to it. They will not get carried away by what the salesman has to offer, and they will keep in mind that if they do not find the perfect match, they will not proceed to purchase. This type of client is easy because they know what they want already and will not waste your time. In addition, if they find what they want, they will buy it without a second thought because they already know their unique needs.

Those who have no intention to buy

Unfortunately, for every customer that completes a decent purchase, there is another one who will not leave a cent. Their typical response to the salesman’s question regarding how they can assist them is ”I am just going to have a look.” Sometimes people know what they need and want to see what each store has to sell and then decide what they want. So, don’t be surprised if you see them the next day entering the store and buying the product they want without further questions. For many people, the idea of having a salesman asking them questions about what they are looking for and how much they are willing to spend is quite stressful. Therefore, they prefer to move inside the store on their own. The bottom line is that even though they do not intend to buy at the moment, they may be future clients, and serving them properly is essential.

Those with no purpose at all

Some people will go to the stores to fill their free time. They do not have any kind of consciousness regarding the attitude they will follow. For sure, they are not looking for anything in particular, but neither could we say they are about to buy the whole store. Their case is the most challenging for proving your selling skills. Since their psychology is unclear, it is completely up to the salesman whether they will be able to get something out of them. The best idea is to approach them in a friendly and less typical way to see what they prefer. Chi chat will make them feel comfortable and open their hearts and wallets.