Luisa Zissman displayed her washboard abs as she posed on a horse wearing a bikini while holidaying in Thailand on Wednesday.

The former Apprentice contestant, 35, previously caused controversy when she revealed she had her beloved pet horse Madrono stuffed.

In the new snap, Luisa donned a blue bikini for the snap and looked relaxed as she enjoyed the sun-soaked surroundings.

Luisa looked glowing and showcased her slender arms in the swimwear, writing on Instagram: 'Happiest when...'

The star, who is a horse lover, has white stallion Madrono on display in her living room window after the animal died in 2019 and was stuffed in 2022.

Luisa, who is a mother-of-one, opted to keep the animal in her life by undergoing the process with skilled taxidermist Simon Wilson over a two-month period.

The move, which was delayed as a result of the coronavirus pandemic, proved to be divisive among social media followers, with some branding her 'creepy' for wanting a constant reminder of its death.

Appearing on Good Morning Britain in 2021, shortly after Wilson reunited Luisa with her horse, she admitted it was impossible to say goodbye to Madrono.

She explained: 'I suppose everyone deals with grief in different ways.  He's so majestic and so beautiful so I didn't want to let go of him...

'When I knew Madrono had to be put to sleep I went to Simon and said I couldn't bear to not see him again.

'I couldn't describe it, I just wanted him with me forever.'

Recalling how she felt after seeing him stuffed for the first time, she said: 'It made me really happy!

'Like you said he's a work of art, he's a sculpture. For me I just wanted him to live forever I guess and be this amazing piece of art, this sculpture, I was so privileged to own him.'

She added: 'I was pretty grief stricken, I had quite a hard time after Madrono died, some people might find that strange but we're a nation of animal lovers so I hope some people with understand.'

Since Madrono's death, the animal lover has acquired four more horses.

Elsewhere, on Luisa's break in Thailand, she continued to fault her stunning figure as she took to Instagram on Easter Monday.

The star displayed the fruits of her labour while posing in a pink bandeau for a stunning selfie.

She ran a hand through her dark blonde tresses and framed her face with a pair of oversized black sunglasses.

In her caption, the Celebrity Big Brother star wrote: 'Happy Monday. How are you spending yours?'

Luisa slipped into a yellow bikini as she visited a farm yard during her sun-soaked Thailand getaway on Saturday.

She looked sensational in the skimpy two piece as she posed for a slew of fun snaps with a drove of pigs.

The swimsuit boasted a bandeau top and high-cut bottoms and perfectly showcased her svelte figure.

Shielding her eyes behind oversized shades, Luisa wore her caramel tresses -ironically- in pigtails as she got down and dirty in the mud.

Writing: 'There is a reason the expression 'as happy as a pig in s***' exists'.

'Today, I experienced the expression in real life & I can confirm when rolling around with with these guys I really was as happy as a pig in s***'.