The global Parenteral Nutrition Market size is expected to reach USD 10.7 billion by 2030 and is expected to expand at a CAGR of 6.0% over the forecast period, according to a new report by Grand View Research, Inc. Growing incidences of chronic diseases, such as cancer, diabetes, and other neurological conditions; surge in essential nutrition deficiency among critically ill patients; and growing awareness pertaining to hospital-related malnutrition are few key factors increasing the adoption of parenteral nutrition. Parenteral drug administration provides the benefit of fast action and lower dose delivery, which prevent various adverse effects because of dietary imbalances, thereby promoting market growth. However, the high risk of infection during administration and growing preference for enteral nutrition among patients are major factors restricting the market growth.

With the increasing population, healthcare costs and food expenditure for a household and the nation are growing. Hence, a higher birth rate is expected to impact nutrition level, thereby acting as a driver for the market. Realized natality plays a more prominent role than absolute natality (crude birth rate), as it includes environmental as well as resource pressures, such as water, food, and medication requirements per birth. Realized natality has been growing in the last decade and is anticipated to maintain growth over the forecast period. In 2020, the natality rate reported by the National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) is 11.99 births per 1,000 population. Furthermore, the percentage of lower-weight infants was 8.0%, thereby boosting the demand for PN products worldwide.

Grand View Research, Inc. has segmented the global parenteral nutrition market on the basis of nutrient type and region:

Based on the Nutrient Type Insights, the market is segmented into Carbohydrates, Parenteral Lipid Emulsion, Single Dose Amino Acid Solution, Trace Elements and Vitamins & Minerals.

* The single-dose amino acid solution segment accounted for the largest market share of more than 30.5%. This can be attributed to the increased usage of amino acidsolutions, which can be related to an increase in the influx of regulatory-approved solutions.

* Parenteral lipid emulsion segment is anticipated to register the fastest growth during the forecast period. In addition, the parenteral lipid emulsions segment is projected to witness the fastest growth rate over the forecast period.

Continuous investments from key operating players for the development of advanced PN solutions have led them to gain a competitive edge in the market, thereby driving the market growth.

Some prominent players in the global Parenteral Nutrition market include

Grand View Research, U. S.-based market research and consulting company, provides syndicated as well as customized research reports and consulting services. Registered in California and headquartered in San Francisco, the company comprises over 425 analysts and consultants, adding more than 1200 market research reports to its vast database each year. These reports offer in-depth analysis on 46 industries across 25 major countries worldwide. With the help of an interactive market intelligence platform, Grand View Research Helps Fortune 500 companies and renowned academic institutes understand the global and regional business environment and gauge the opportunities that lie ahead.