Lillian F. Davis, age 91, of Carlton, passed away Friday, April 14, 2023 at her home with family by her side. She was born March 27, 1932, in Crosby, Minnesota, the daughter of Melvin and Gladys (Wolford) Bayliss. Lillian graduated from Aitkin High School. She was a long-time member of Bethesda Lutheran Church in Carlton having joined in 1958. Lillian was the first woman to chair the Bethesda Church Council and remained active there through the years with women’s groups, quilters, church secretary, teaching, etc. When the children grew up, she worked as secretary for the City Clerk in Carlton for nearly 18 years.

Lillian loved Gordy and the family, and especially the times spent together traveling, camping or just being together at home. They have great memories of the many trips by air, car, bus, or camper. Especially remembering the four summers they were volunteers at the Army Corp of Engineers Sandy Lake Federal Campground north of McGregor, MN.

Lillian and Gordy were married November 16, 1953 and they looked forward to celebrating 70 years of marriage this fall. Lil was a quilter and for many years enjoyed monthly meetings with her friends from the Humble Quilters Guild of Carlton/Cloquet. Lillian made many quilts for her family, siblings, friends, charities, and church.

Lillian was preceded in death by her parents; father-in-law and mother-in law, Rolland and Fern Davis; grandson, Austin Davis; brothers Roger (Lois), Jerome and Ken Bayliss; brothers-in-law, Les Wycoff and Tom Nephew; nieces Nancy, Nadine and Sherry; nephews, Joey, Mike, and Mark: and several aunts and uncles. She is survived by her husband, Gordon Davis; children, Rod (Deb) Davis, Cindy (Dave) Berthiaume, Garry (Julie) Davis, Jeanine (Lance) Johnson, and Kristi (Pat) O’Brien; grandchildren, Cassi (Leslie Peterson) Davis, Brandon and Broc Johnson, Bob Berthiaume, Rachael (Ryan) Olesiak, Mike Davis, Chad (Christina) Duncan, Ashley (Tony) Theisen, Garrett (Emily) Davis, Trent (Sabrina) and Justine Johnson, and Jordyn O’Brien; great-grandchildren, Pierce, Azaelia, Sienna, Amelia, Ethan, Madi, McKenzie, Kennedy, Ryden, Riley, Max, Asher, Kenley, Jett, Ivy, Brynna, Emmett, Gia, and two more great-grandchildren joining the fold this fall; siblings, Audrey Wycoff, Shirley (Duane) Mead, Jeanine (Jerry Holmvig) Nephew, Beverly (Jim) Hofmann, sisters-in-law Marilyn and Lois Bayliss, and several nieces and nephews.

A visitation will be held Monday, April 17, 2023, from 10:00 a.m. until the 12:00 noon funeral service at Bethesda Lutheran Church in Carlton, followed by a luncheon in the church fellowship hall. A private, family burial will be held at a later date at Hillside Cemetery in Carlton. Arrangements are entrusted to Nelson Funeral Care of Cloquet.