Florida State unveiled new football uniforms for the 2023 season during its spring game. This is the first uniform update FSU has had since after the national championship season in 2013.

The new uniforms, from Nike, featured shorter sleeves with detailed symbols that are symbolic gestures of the Seminole tribe (rather than being on the shoulder area).  Numbers are lower on the back of the jersey. And the color is closer to FSU's classic garnet and gold, with Nike's Vapor F. U.S.E. design.

FSU's equipment account had teased an update throughout the last several months, but this was a surprise announcement.

The uniforms feature an updated design on the jerseys and pants, both of which feature elements previously worn by great FSU teams. On the jerseys, the numbers move from the top of the shoulders down to the sleeve, while the tribal pattern moves from the shoulder cap to the sleeve cuffs and remains on the redesigned collar. The pants will feature FSU’s primary Seminole head logo on both hips.

The tribal pattern incorporates meaningful symbolism from the Seminole Tribe’s patchwork patterns into the program’s jerseys. The patchwork decorative technique dates back to the early 1900s among Seminole Tribe women and was adopted by the Tribe as a standard means of embellishing their traditionally vibrant clothing. The pattern on the jerseys is designed using the Seminole symbols for arrow, man on horse and fire from top to bottom in a repeating arrangement.

Florida State will be among a limited number of collegiate programs wearing the new state-of-the-art Nike Vapor F. U.S.E. uniform that combines lightweight fabric technology with a precision fit to help allow ultimate performance on the field. Replica jerseys are expected to be available in retail stores closer to the start of the 2023 season.

The Seminoles have garnet and white jerseys, as well as gold, garnet and white pants plus gold and white helmet options for the 2023 season, creating 12 different possible combinations.

Florida State, which enters the 2023 season in the top-10 on nearly all preseason projections, opens its season Sunday, Sept. 3, against LSU in Orlando.