Shona Robison issued the warning following speculation that Nicola Sturgeon herself may be questioned by the police about the storm rocking the SNP.

There is no evidence to suggest the former party leader has done anything wrong. But suggestions are growing that she may be interviewed by police, possibly under caution or as a witness, after her husband Peter Murrell was arrested earlier this month and detectives searched the couple’s home.

Party treasurer Colin Beattie was also arrested and questioned by police yesterday as part of a long-running probe into SNP finances.

Both men have been released under investigation without charge.

Police Scotland are investigating how more than £650,000 in donations to the party earmarked for an independence referendum were used.

Speaking on BBC Radio Scotland’s Good Morning Scotland programme on Wednesday, Ms Robison said that decisive action was “absolutely critical” and that going forward the party needed to be “about transparency”.

Asked whether the party was concerned that Ms Sturgeon might be arrested she declined to comment, saying speculating would not “be helpful”.

She added: “We need to wait for the facts to be established, whether that’s through the ongoing police investigation and of course the review about how the party is managed and that of course is really, really important not just to reassure party members, but it is important that the public expect us to get our own house in order while also focusing as a government on supporting their households through the cost-of-living crisis.”

Defeated SNP leadership candidate Kate Forbes told BBC Radio 4 that claims about the party’s finances had been “mind-blowing”. She said new party leader and First Minister Humza Yousaf should take “decisive and quick action” or the party would be in trouble.

“I think, right now, people are watching with astonishment, but they want to see leadership in dealing with it and resolving it,” she said. “What the people of Scotland want is good education, a good functioning NHS, a growing, well performing economy.

“These are the issues that matter. And if we can fix and sort the problems within our own party quickly and ensure we are delivering on those external issues, then I think we can continue to build on the trust and success.

“The danger will be if there is an absence of decisive and quick action.”

Mr Yousaf has put in place a review of how the party is managed following the allegations.

Asked whether Ms Sturgeon should be suspended from the SNP, Ms Robison said that Mr Yousaf had made it clear that people were innocent until proven guilty and therefore it would inappropriate to suspend membership in this situation.

She added: “Going forward, the governance of the party needs to be absolutely about transparency, openness, and people should be able to question, and question about the accounts or any other matters — that’s quite right and proper.”