SACRAMENTO — Stephen Curry knew the topic was coming. He couldn’t help but laugh when it arrived — a question about his rotation.

“I don’t know, man,” Curry said, smiling as he scanned the box score. “I mean, I played 37, that’s 11 minutes on the bench, just trying to find the right times to get a little breather, knowing I’m not playing 48. But, uh, yeah, I don’t know.”

It was a worthy topic following the Warriors’ 126-123 loss Saturday to the host Kings in Game 1 of this Western Conference first-round series. The Warriors were in control, up 86-76 after a Curry 3-pointer with 3:07 left in the third quarter. Golden State’s lead was eight when he checked out at the 2:18 mark. He sat for four minutes, 58 seconds of game time, bridging the third and fourth quarters. In that span, the Kings outscored the Warriors 23-11, took control of the game and found their rhythm on offense.

We all know how this goes. When the Warriors are worried, when they feel the most threatened, Curry’s minutes go up. Most importantly, he plays all the first and third quarters and rests to start the second and fourth quarters. The ideal pattern for coach Steve Kerr is to bring his star back with six minutes left in either half, which puts Curry at 36 minutes. That’s the sweet spot. But when the Warriors really have their foot on the gas, Curry is back in at about the eight-minute mark, sometimes even nine, pushing his minutes total to 38 or 39.

Andrew Wiggins was back. Klay Thompson just had his best season since his injuries. Draymond Green is always and forever Draymond Green. Donte DiVincenzo is such a good player. Jordan Poole is an impactful scorer. Jonathan Kuminga has emerged as the most productive of the Warriors’ young stars. But Game 1 proved the Warriors in the playoffs are still about Curry, bending the defense, weighing on the opponent with the pressure he applies, creating opportunities for his teammates. That’s when the Warriors are at their best. It’s going to take their best to upset the Kings.

Curry made it clear with his reaction to the question: The Warriors aren’t panicking yet. None was to be found in their locker room. The raucousness of Golden 1 Center didn’t shake their confidence yet. The Kings have their full attention.

“That’s what we live for,” Curry said. “We thrive in these situations. It’s so different than the regular season because you’re playing the same team, and that little bit of an advantage mentally, seeing the game making those adjustments, it matters. … It brings the best out of us. And there’s a lot of confidence about what that looks like for us to try to, again, just win Game 2 and get back in the series and take it from there.”

The Warriors lost Game 1 but got back Playoff Andrew Wiggins

The Warriors have never been down 0-2 in the Steve Kerr era. But they have now lost the first road game in a series 11 times under Kerr. They won Game 2 eight of the previous 10 times. Saturday, they had the same confident vibes they carried in those situations.

Perhaps because Curry figured out the Kings’ box-and-one defense against him, scoring 13 of his 30 points in the fourth quarter.

Or maybe it’s because the Warriors believe they will be better as a team at making the Kings pay for their scheme, namely Thompson who was 8-for-19 from the field. Warriors not named Curry were 10-for-36 from deep (27.8 percent).

Or maybe it’s because they know Curry can play better. When he sat in the third quarter, he had taken just 12 shots and had five turnovers.

It’s too early in the series, and too much went right for the Warriors to start sounding rotational alarms after one game. They are the lower seed, starting the postseason on the road for the first time since the 2014 playoffs. They lost a game in which they had the Kings bottled up for a half and Domantas Sabonis, who many deem as Sacramento’s MVP, wasn’t much of a factor all night. Yet, still no aura of concern.

“For the most part, I liked the way that we played,” Curry said. “And if we can do that again — just with that level of execution, shore up some of our defensive kind of rotations and looks to try to slow those guys down. I know we can shoot the ball better and rebound the ball better. So if we can do those things, I like where we’re at … we’ve got to win one in this building at least, so, why not Game 2?”

In its first postseason appearance since 2006, Sacramento passed the first test. The Kings withstood the pressure of the champions taking control and silencing the crowd and responded with a credible charge. But the Warriors know the higher seed now has to take exam No. 2 — dealing with the Warriors’ adjustments. This is the part the defending champions love.

Saturday night, they seemed more excited about being back in this mix than disappointed in losing.

“I love this s—,” Jordan Poole said, who lit up talking about the binging of film in the postseason. “For however long we’re in. Just OD’ing. Literally go to sleep thinking about it and wake up thinking about it. Just because it’s like, ‘Alright. Game 1’s over. Now they’ve got to do it again. And do it again. And then again one more time.’ It’s exciting. It’s dope.”

Who can blame them? The last series they played in, the Warriors lost the first game at home to the Celtics, then lost the first road game in Boston, and somehow still managed to win the series in six games. They’ve been down 2-1 to LeBron James, 3-1 to Kevin Durant. They’ve carved out their Hall of Fame careers by finding a way.

De'Aaron Fox strikes first in pivotal PG battle vs. Steph Curry. Here's how Steph sees it

De’Aaron Fox was spectacular in Game 1. But nothing happened to make the Warriors believe they can’t find a way in this series. Sacramento could come out and change that on Monday night, play even better and put the Warriors against the ropes. But how things played out at Golden 1 Center, they like their chances.

Certainly, the Warriors have some adjustments to make — beginning with their 3-point happiness down the stretch. They took 50 in Game 1, going 6-for-19 in the fourth quarter. Golden State was 18 of 29 in the paint over the first three quarters, then just took five attempts in the paint in the fourth quarter, making four.

Perhaps the Warriors know the Kings are one of the worst rim-protecting teams in the league and the Warriors won’t let them off the hook by jacking 3-pointers. The Warriors were 27-for-40 inside the arc (67.5 percent).

Another adjustment: the Warriors turned the ball over 14 times in the first three quarters. They produced their highest-scoring quarter in the fourth, even while being cold from 3, when they turned it over just once. The Warriors finished the game with eight fewer shots because of turnovers and offensive rebounds by the Kings.

Perhaps the Warriors know if they just protect the ball, their offense can get what they want against this Kings’ defense.

Despite the loss, the Warriors like how they sit. The Kings played a brilliant second half, totaling 71 points, and still the Warriors were in position to win. And being so close to winning means one of their favorite parts about postseason basketball kicks in. The response.

The easy answer just might be more minutes for Curry.

Five observations: Warriors fall to the Kings in an entertaining Game 1