My mother once told me, “If you can’t say anything nice, don’t say anything at all.” Well, actually, if we’re being honest, that’s not true. She’s a Giants’ season ticket holder, though, so she has told me, “If the Giants don’t [redacted] the [redacted] [redacted], I’m going to [redacted] the [redacted] [redacted] [redacted],” recently, which is almost the same thing.

The Giants are [redacted] right now. As of Tuesday morning, they’re on a four-game losing streak, and in every single game they made you feel like they had a shot at winning. Maybe even a good shot. Whether it’s Alex Cobb heading into the fourth against the Dodgers with a 3-0 lead, or Camilo Doval needing just one more out to put the Tigers away, no team in baseball has been better at ripping defeat from the jaws of victory this season.

There are two ways to write about a start like this, and they’re both guaranteed to tick off half the fan base. The grumps don’t want to read about the water that’s in the glass, and the eternal optimists don’t want to read about the water that’s missing from the glass. They definitely don’t want to read about how the Giants spilled the water right onto the keyboard of their new laptops, which made them shout [redacted].

When I look at the Giants’ Baseball Reference page, though, I’m not looking at a team that should lose two out of every three games for the rest of the season. Call me a homer, call me an apologist, call me Ismael Valdéz, but I’m still seeing a little more water in that glass. In the spirit of the imaginary mother who would have told me that cliché, and in honor of the actual mother who might need a pick-me-up about the Giants, here is One Nice Thing about the season for every hitter on the Giants.

We’ll get to the pitchers on Wednesday or Thursday, depending on what happens against the Marlins.

Joey Bart: His defense is looking sharp.

Sure, he’s hit a few balls hard in his 20 at-bats this season, but it’s going to be his defense and pitcher-whispering that gives him a long leash as the primary catcher, especially with Gary Sánchez lurking in Triple-A Sacramento.

I thought yesterday was one of Bart's best games in the big leagues. In addition to the throw to second, there's all this: https://t.co/mvvEGFtSOx

His overall numbers on throws to second base are down, but that’s in a four-chance sample. His best pop time this season ranks with the elite backstops, and if he can steal strikes, slow the running game as much as possible and hit the occasional 110 mph rocket, he’ll stick around.

Blake Sabol: When he hits it, he hits it hard

The “when he hits it” is doing a lot of work here, as he currently has one of the lowest contact rates in the majors, just below some guy named Aaron Judge. But he’s also not too far from Judge in average exit velocity, albeit in a 20-batted-ball sample, and he’s also better than average at laying off pitches outside of the strike zone. If he gets better at hitting the pitches inside the strike zone, the Giants might have something here.

With Sánchez likely coming soon, he’ll have to make those adjustments within the next couple of weeks. But you can at least see why the Giants gave him a try.

Enough walks to justify its own article. Wade is swinging at fewer pitches outside of the strike zone than all but three major-leaguers, and he’s also making a lot of contact with the pitches that he’s swinging on inside the strike zone. So if you’re not excited by walks, phrase it differently: He’s really seeing the ball well right now.

Thairo Estrada: He’s doing everything well, give or take

He’s prone to chasing the ball out of the strike zone. He’ll never be a walk machine. But he can run, and he can get a hold of mistakes. Perhaps the most important sign is that his defense looks strong at second, which wasn’t always the case last season. The Giants put a lot of faith over the offseason in Estrada’s ability to play every day, and they’ve been rewarded so far.

J. D. Davis: The dingers, sure, but the defense has been a revelation

It’s too early to get excited about, well, anything, but J. D. Davis sure looks like someone who has spent a lot of time working on his defense at third. He currently rates as the Giants’ best defender, and while early-season samples are notoriously finicky for defensive stats, he certainly looks more comfortable there. And it bodes well when you pair this development with …

David Villar: He looks like he can be pretty OK at second base, which could be important

Villar is making strong contact, and he’s also not chasing nearly as much as he did last season. There’s still too much swing and miss in his game, along with other concerns, but you can see a path to him becoming a player you want in the everyday lineup, if he’s not there already.

If he’s hitting and Davis is hitting, that’s a problem if you need both of them stuck at third base, especially with a right-hander on the mound, which typically means Wade at first and Joc Pederson at DH. But if Villar can play second, you can get Estrada into the outfield or over at short, and suddenly the lineup seems a little deeper.

It’s only going to work if Villar isn’t a clankmitt out there at second. Other than one (very, very) ill-advised fielder’s choice against the Tigers on Saturday, he’s looked fine.

Yep. Still that guy. Except he’s had to play only 10 innings at third base this season, with most of his time coming at first base, where’s a sneakily strong fielder, so he’s an even better version of the old Wilmer. He’s not going to hit .317 all season, but he still has a good chance to remain Wilmer Flores, which is a helpful thing indeed.

It would be the highest walk rate of his career if he keeps it up, but I avoided this one as long as he can. Crawford’s offense is a problem, but he’s also been one of the roughest defenders in the league, according to the metrics. The viability of Villar at second means that the Giants could still have a path to a hit-first infield that helps them outscore their opponents, but this positive tidbit is a stretch.

There just isn’t much positivity underneath the hood, here, but I said that in the first half of 2020, too. He’s surprised before.

Mike Yastrzemski: Still hitting the ball hard, still isn’t getting himself out

Yastrzemski’s chase rate is elite, and he has the fourth-best percentage of swings out of the zone, just behind Mike Trout and Wade. He’s also hitting the ball hard, with high average and maximum exit velocities, which means that the approach is sound. He’s waiting for his pitch and driving it.

So why is he hitting just .237? That’s for the Giants to figure out. But you’d rather have his current numbers happen this way rather than with a wild, swing-at-the-seagulls approach with weak contact.

Michael Conforto: Doesn’t look nearly as rusty as he should be

Hitting a baseball is hard enough. But doing it after missing an entire season? That’s warlock stuff. Conforto’s average is low, but he’s getting on base and hitting for power. That’s exactly why the Giants got him.

Still mesmerized by this play:

Will he ever hit enough to be a major-league regular? Too soon to tell, but it’s trending in the wrong direction. His fielding, though, gives him something the Giants don’t have in abundance. Just a little more in-game power, and he’s an easy player to slot onto a roster. (He’s still just 23, remember.)

Matt Beaty: You cannot possibly expect me to have an opinion on Matt Beaty

Not trying to be rude, it’s just that Beaty has five at-bats this year. He’s faced five pitchers this season and seven batters. I don’t have a read on him at all. (And, as of one minute after filing this, he’s back in Sacramento in favor of Brett Wisely.)

That’s what he’s here for, and it’s worth pointing out that he wasn’t cowed by the high-90s heat of Jesus Luzárdo. The bat is still quick enough to play against the fastballs of the youths these days, so it’s his reaction to the bendy stuff that will determine if he’s more Giant than Met.

Joc Pederson: Looks like the same hitter, just without the defensive expectations

Do you know what would have been incredible? Joc Pederson’s 2022 season without the inexplicable .133/.221/.200 line with zero home runs in July. Combine that with fewer concerns with his defense, and you have a player who probably doesn’t accept the Giants’ qualifying offer this offseason.

As is, he looks like the same hitter, and that hitter was very, very good in five out of the six months last year.

The Giants have an adjusted OPS of 102, which is above average. According to the expected stats, they should be 8-7, which would be much more in line with expectations. As is, they’ve been excellent at making you shout [redacted], to the point where you can actually see the grawlix in a word balloon above your head.