Kade Wolhuter, who is still only 21 years old, has long been identified as one of the most exciting young flyhalves in South African rugby, with great expectations having followed his progress since leaving school.

Unfortunately, injuries have blighted his early career, with the youngster suffering a rupture of his ACL back in 2021, which ruled him out for the better part of the next year.

After working his way back to fitness, Wolhuter has made several appearances this season, and it was hoped that he could again work his way back into the Stormers setup.

Unfortunately, the youngster has now confirmed on social media that he has suffered the same injury on his other knee.

“What a way to bring the season to an end,” he commented. “Second ruptured ACL, right knee this time, so at least I’ll be symmetrical! Tough nine months ahead of me, but we’ve done it once before so bring it on again!”

ALSO READ | Springboks: Succession plan in place for next coach!

ALSO READ | Have your say: Who should be the next Springbok coach?

Recently, Stormers coach John Dobson spoke about the young talents within the Stormers system.

“I’m confident in the squad, and it is a young squad,” Dobson said. “But if I think of Sacha (Feinberg-Mngomezulu), Imad Khan, Suleiman Hartzenberg, Connor Evans, Kade Wolhuter … it’s maybe a bit early for them in the traditional sense but it’s an opportunity for them to get better, and come the 2023-24 season they’ll be so much better for the experience.

“One of the ways we can attract players to the Stormers and to retain the best of our schools, club and Varsity talent is to consistently be title contenders, to play an exciting brand of rugby and to showcase that in playing for us also improves any national Springbok possibility.

“The Evan Roos story has been a massive story for us, the same with veteran Deon Fourie and the former Paarl Boys High, WP and SA Schools captain Salmaan Moerat. And some of these youngsters I’ve mentioned, maybe not this season but I think they can become Springboks.

“If we’re seen as a Springbok factory, guys will want to come play for us, and that’s an important yardstick for our success.”

ALSO READ | RASSIE ERASMUS: I’M STAYING OFF TWITTER… FOR NOW!