TEEN Mom star Briana DeJesus has begged fans for "prayers" after her sister Brittany was rushed to the hospital.

The 28-year-old shared her concerns for Brittany after her older sibling's medical emergency in Los Angeles last week.

Briana shared a photo of Brittany on her Instagram Story on Sunday and wrote: "Please pray for my sister Brittany."

The mother of two added broken love heart and prayer hands emojis to the text.

Last week, Brittany, 31, revealed she went to the hospital with kidney stones while on a trip to Los Angeles with her fiancé Steven.

The Teen Mom star shared a video of herself lying on a hospital bed and said: "Passing kidney stones...10 out of 10 do not, do not recommend."

The caption read: "I got a little taste of what labor might feel like.

"Stop asking me to have kids bc that's a big IDK after what tf I just went through."

The MTV star's fiancé Steven also shared a snapshot of Brittany in the hospital as part of his Los Angeles vacation Instagram photo dump.

The photos included a shot of the couple's dinner at a Korean restaurant, a pic of steamed pork dumplings, and a photo of the Los Angeles fast food staple In-N-Out Burger.

The last snap captured Brittany sitting in a wheelchair while still inside the hospital after her procedure.

Steven captioned the post: "Cali trip with my best friend," punctuated with the fingers crossed and burning heart emojis.

Brittany commented: "If you don’t end up in the hospital then that means the trip wasn’t done right."

Her partner replied: "Facts know we always do it right."

Brittany got engaged to Steven in Hawaii in February, sharing photos of his sweet proposal on her social media.

Steven got down on one knee on a hill overlooking the Hawaiian mountains.

In December, she posed beside her boyfriend and showed off a sparkling diamond ring on her finger.

Fans excitedly speculated online as one wrote: "I spy a ring on Brittany's finger."

Another posted: "Good for Brittany she deserves to be happy," and a third added: "This is cute. I hope they are happy!"

While Brittany is happily loved-up, fans have been speculating that  Briana is getting back together with her baby daddy, Devoin Austin.

The reality TV star recently posted a picture on her Instagram Story of herself and Devoin enjoying a meal out together and she even tagged him in the picture.

Re-posting the image on a Teen Mom fan forum, one person said: "Bri and Devoin have been spending lots of time together, without Nova too!"

Others quickly commented on the thread as one person wrote: "I knew it. Lol. Hey…they both know what they are getting into."