The Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP) governorship candidate in Kogi State, Sen. Dino Melaye, has revealed that Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike supported him in the past because he felt he had the qualities and credibility to be a governor.

Senator Melaye made this known while appearing on Arise morning show on Wednesday.

He said that Wike also invested his money in him, adding that he has respect for him as somebody who has assisted him in the past.

Melaye said, “I want to tell you [Wike] that you supported me, doesn’t mean that you would ask for my liver and kidney. I will not give it and let me say that Wike himself has always been supported and he owes PDP a lot and anything he is doing for any individual in PDP is like giving back for what PDP has done for him.

“Governor Odili made him chairman of his local government. So he has been helped by somebody. After Governor Odili helped him, Governor Amaechi made him chief of staff. Governor Amaechi helped him. Governor Amaechi nominated him to be a minister of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Governor Amaechi helped him. Mrs Goodluck Jonathan spent her money, her connection and everything to make him the Governor of Rivers State.

“So everyone gets helped by one person or the other. But you don’t help people with the intention to enslave them, to control them and run their life and decisions. Once you give assistance to somebody, then you should allow the person to exist, but Wike once he assists you and you don’t do his bidding and you try to say I have an idea or decision, he would go all out and advertise you and announce what he has done for you.

“For example, he gave N50 million to the family of a late respected traditional ruler in Port Harcourt. He came to a national TV to announce that he gave N50m to that respected Nigerian, a former minister of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and a respected traditional ruler.

“You don’t do things like that. In fact, the holy book said whatever you do with your right hand, the left hand should not even know. So the truth of the matter is that God can assist you through anybody. But because I refused to support his presidential ambition. When he was helping me, I was qualified, when he was helping me, he felt I had the qualities and credibility to be a governor and that is why he invested his money in me and that is why he gave me his private jet.

“So what happened now? The same person you saw quality in him, the same person you saw quality in him, you will not put your money where you have no faith. Nobody will do that. Only a madman will do that. So he invested at that time because he saw quality in me, he saw that I was qualified to be the Governor of Kogi State, but because I refused to do his bidding, because I refused to support his presidential ambition, he now wants to take on me. Throughout the campaign, you will never find a place where I spoke derogatorily about Governor Wike because I respect him as somebody who has assisted me in the past.”