How to Live With Objects

The Best Thing We Saw in Milan Today: India Mahdavi for Gebrüder Thonet Vienna

Sight Unseen is on the ground at the Milan Furniture Fair right now and we’ll be bringing you loads of coverage next week, but meanwhile we’re we’re featuring quick hits on the best things we’re seeing as we go. This is a simple one, but we just we felt drawn this year to the stylish weirdness of India Mahdavi’s new Loop dining chair for Gebrüder Thonet Vienna, which takes the heritage brand’s historical tubular bent-wood frame style and turns it into something modern, playful but not silly, and with one of the best two-tone color schemes we’ve seen in awhile. The brand is also launching the Ample chair by Luca Nichetto, shown below in a similarly nice all-green scheme. See them on view this week at the Salone del Mobile fairgrounds, Pavilion 4, booth G05.

Our 2021 Collection Launches Today on 1stDibs — With New Work From 16 International Designers

The pandemic may have prevented us from hosting our Offsite show this year, but we didn't want to entirely abandon our role as a platform for supporting the work of independent designers — especially since they haven't let it stop them from coming up with brilliant new ideas, even without a physical fair to debut them at. So for 2021, we decided to curate a special collection of furniture and accessories by 16 contemporary designers and launch it for sale exclusively on 1stDibs, starting today.

The Best Thing We Saw in Milan Today: Norwegian Presence

This week we're featuring our favorite quick hits from this year's Milan Design Week. First up is the ninth annual edition of Norwegian Presence, a group exhibition of work by some of the Nordic country's best talents, curated by Design and Architecture Norway (DOGA) and, this year, styled by Kråkvik & D’Orazio and Bjørn van den Berg.

It took me 16 issues (Miranda July) to discover the Berlin-based magazine mono.kultur, after seeing its pull-out poster on my friend's wall a few years back. "Dear life," it read, "do you want to hang out tonight? I should warn you that I will not be wearing any make-up and my hair is dirty. If you can handle that, call me. Yours, Miranda July." Five issues later (Tilda Swinton), I was obsessed: Here was a publication that, with each issue dedicated to a single long-form interview, was less about collecting personalities for front-cover bragging rights and more about truly, painstakingly, and intimately getting to know them. Which is all any of us dream about when it comes to our cultural idols, even those of us who, from time to time, have the honor of crossing their paths ourselves. So even though we've profiled Martino Gamper on Sight Unseen before — our lovely London contributor Claire Walsh having toured his home garden and secured us his favorite pasta recipe — we still jumped at the chance to excerpt mono.kultur's new sit-down with the Italian RCA grad, who talked to its editors about his latest public design projects, his feelings about Ikea, and the use of humor in his work. The interview runs to 10,000 words and — in print — comprises three booklets hand-assembled into one exhaustive artifact that stretches far beyond the small sample presented here. After reading it, scroll down to learn how to get your own copy before it — like most of the issues this cult favorite has produced — sells out forever.