To reconstruct the climate of ancient Egypt, Swiss scientists have resorted to an unexpected source - mummy labels. These labels, which were affixed to the bodies of mummies during the Roman era, are small wooden tags that contain valuable climate information. The tree growth rings in the wood hold the key to unlocking their secrets.

The aptly named mummy labels included the deceased's name, their parents' names and sometimes even a religious message. Luckily for the Swiss scientists, mummy labels incorporated additional information which can provide much-needed historical climate data. Being made out of wood, mummy labels also have growth rings that provide details about the climate at the time they were made. The width of the rings indicates good years and narrow rings indicate years of drought, a concept explored in detail in the study published in The International Journal of Wood Culture .

“Mummy labels are just a proxy tool that we are using to reconstruct the climate of Roman Egypt, the breadbasket of the Roman Empire , and understand how climate fluctuations influenced changes in society, government, and the economy,” said Sabine Huebner, the leader of this project at the Swiss National Science Foundation (SNSF), in an  official press release . The scientists have begun referring to the labels as “ Rosetta stones ,” a pun that alludes to the ancient Egyptian artifact which served as the key to deciphering hieroglyphics.

Image comparison of two mummy labels. The label on the left (HO163) has a neat finish, while the label on the right (F1949/4.2) has traces of sawing. ( International Journal of Wood Culture  / CC BY 4.0)

The team of scientists, funded by the Swiss National Science Foundation, is analyzing the tree ring  sequences of over 300 mummy labels to identify overlaps and provide an initial outline of what the climate was like in the areas where the trees were harvested.

However, determining the exact dates of the events recorded in the rings is still a challenge. To address this, the team of mummy label analysts is working to find datable specimens or use radiocarbon dating  to reduce dating uncertainty.

“That’s why mummy labels are ideal for our purposes,” explained François Blondel, an archaeologist at the University of Geneva, and lead author of the study. “Not only are there thousands of them in museums around the world, they’re made from lots of different tree species, such as pine, cypress, cedar and juniper.”

BREAKING NEWS FROM THE ANCIENT WORLD

Our PostDoc F. Blondel and the Head of Department Prof. Dr. S. Huebner released an interview on the first results collected from tree ring analysis of Egyptian mummy labels. Check the links https://t.co/YYD9GTedEIhttps://t.co/WydIUdMHf1 pic.twitter.com/s6K7bjE73H

The labels offer a tool that can be used to reconstruct the climate of Roman Egypt , an area that was once the breadbasket of the Roman Empire. They have proved to be a valuable source of information for modern scientists studying the climate of ancient times.

The growth rings can provide evidence of years of drought or good years, with broad rings indicating faster growth during good years and narrow rings indicating slower growth during dry or difficult years. The mummy labels are able to help scientists to understand the subtleties of climate fluctuation  over time.

The overlaps of the growth rings on the wooden mummy labels provide an initial understanding of the climate in the regions where the trees were harvested. However, the exact dates of these climate events are still unknown. To determine the dates, the scientists will need to locate a specimen that can be dated. If successful, they can then compare the growth ring sequences with other labels from the same tree species and region to determine the exact date of the event.

Alternatively, they may need to use radiocarbon dating if they cannot find a suitable specimen. By taking several samples of wood from the same specimen along the rings, the dating uncertainty can be statistically reduced to almost zero. However, obtaining permission from museums for invasive radiocarbon analysis is a necessary step that needs to be taken.

Comparison of two X-ray computed tomography images from softwood mummy labels. ( International Journal of Wood Culture  / CC BY 4.0)

Throughout the Earth's history, natural fluctuations in climate have occurred, and while these fluctuations may seem insignificant compared to the current climate crisis, they have had significant effects on the course of human history. Recent studies have shown that fluctuations in climate played a role in the rise and fall of the Roman Empire.

These fluctuations would have had an impact on the availability of resources, the success of crops and the stability of societies. For example, periods of drought and extreme weather conditions could lead to crop failures, which in turn could lead to famine and social unrest.

On the other hand, good years with favorable weather conditions could lead to prosperous times, making it easier for empires to thrive. This was observed in a recent study in the case of the Hittite Empire , where it was observed that a severe drought caused the empire to collapse around 1190 BC.

Sabine Huebner, the leader of the SNSF project that is trying to reconstruct the climate of Roman Egypt, is coordinating the work of historians, archaeologists and climatologists. She said that this research is a perfect example of how questions raised by ancient history, such as in the case of ancient Egyptian mummy lables, can be relevant to modern-day issues.

If it is well understood how climate change  affected past societies, its effects could be mitigated or adapted to by current societies, lessening the disproportionate burden that climate fury is unleashing on poorer communities and countries.

Top image: Mummy labels under analysis sourced from the Bibliothèque Nationale et Universitaire (BNU) of Strasbourg (France) collection. Source: International Journal of Wood Culture  / CC BY 4.0