Skip to main content

What are you looking for?

CARE is seeking a Monitoring, Evaluation and Learning (MEL) Advisor, who as a member of the Education and Adolescent Empowerment (EAE) Unit, will be responsible for:

-Quantitative and qualitative data analysis of monitoring and evaluation data collected by large-scale donor-funded projects.

-Technical assistance on the design and implementation of MEL systems for rigorously evaluated projects, including existing initiatives and new business.

This position contributes to:

-The generation and production of knowledge documents highlighting the impact of CARE’s programming, its innovations, lessons, promising practices, and challenges.

-Technical assistance to country office teams on the use of knowledge and learning for adaptations to project design and contributions to national-level research on education and adolescent programming.

This position will contribute to the EAE Unit’s learning agenda and represent the Unit in external and internal forums on MEL and education.

Technical assistance on MEL and research design/ implementation: a nalyze quantitative and qualitative monitoring, evaluation, and research data collected by large-scale projects in an independent manner, using a mixed-methods, complexity-aware approach. Use findings to inform evidence-driven adaptive management processes.

Development of knowledge products and capacity building on knowledge management: t his position will support project teams on the identification, documentation, and dissemination of impact results and learning from Education and Adolescent Empowerment projects.

Resource Mobilization: t his position will contribute to the preparation of proposals for new projects. The MEL Advisor will also package impact results and best practices for use in resource mobilization efforts.

Education Team membership: p articipation in unit and cluster-level planning; contributions to consultative meetings organized by PSI and other CARE divisions/units; contribution to the design of sector strategy. May include other duties as assigned.

Master Degree in Social Sciences, Education, Public Health, Sociology or other relevant field (PhD preferred)

Training on advanced quantitative data analysis and use of mixed methods, or demonstrated experience in their use in education programming.

At least 3-5 years of professional experience in research and advanced quantitative data analysis, particularly for education/adolescent-focused programming or related development areas.

Proficiency in the use of statistical analysis packages (SPSS, STATA, SAS, R).

Excellent writing skills in English (writing samples will be required).

Experience in the setup and implementation of large scale, rigorously evaluated education programs, particularly funded by USAID, FCDO, or Global Partnership for Education.

Experience in the setup and use of electronic data collection (ONA, Kobo, ODK, etc).

Experience and sound understanding of gender transformative approaches to development.

Experience in design of assessment tools and participatory tools for use with children/ adolescents.

Demonstrated ability to collaborate with diverse teams and effectively communicate new, complex and/or sensitive topics.