BLADENBORO – West Bladen pounded out 13 hits and erupted for a pair of 6-run innings en route to a 14-6 Southeastern Athletic Conference baseball victory over Red Springs Tuesday night.

After the Red Devils took a 1-0 lead with an unearned run in the 2nd inning, the Knights answered with 6 runs in the 3rd. Sophomore Cade Allen was hit by a pitch, junior Jordan Hester walked and senior Bryce Fuller beat out a bunt single. Sophomore Mason Jones laced a single to right field that scored Allen.

Senior Hunter Smith walked to force home Hester. Senior Hunter Elks raked a single to left that plated Fuller and Jones. Sophomore Hezekiah Adams poled a sacrifice fly to center that scored Smith, and sophomores Garrett Dunham and Brady Durden drew walks before Allen launched a sacrifice fly to center that scored Elks for a 6-1 West lead.

Fuller singled to start the Knight 4th but was caught stealing. However Jones and Smith drew walks. Both runners advanced on a passed ball, and Elks lined a single to left that scored Jones and Smith to push the lead to 8-1.

Two walks, 3 singles, an error and a passed ball produced 5 runs for the Red Devils in the 6th inning as they closed the gap to 8-6. R. Wilkins, I. Locklear and T. Locklear had hits in the inning for Red Springs.

The Knights bounced back with 6 runs in their half of the 6th. Elks walked, and Dunham reached on a fielder’s choice. Elks scored on an error, and Allen reached on an error that scored Dunham.

Junior Will Durden walked, and senior Kaden Revels loaded the bases with an infield hit. Senior Aaron Wren yanked a single to left that drove in Allen and Will Durden. Smith drilled a single to right that scored Revels and Wren.

Brady Durden pitched 5-plus innings to pick up the win allowing 5 runs – 4 earned – on 6 hits and 2 walks, while striking out 7. Senior Garrison Carr closed out the game with 2 innings of 1-hit relief and allowed an unearned run.

Elks batted 3-for-4 with 4 RBIs and 2 runs scored to lead the Knight hitters. Jones finished 2-for-3 at the plate with an RBI and 2 runs scored. Fuller was 2-for-4 at the plate with a run scored.

Dunham, Allen, Hester, Revels, Wren, and Smith contributed 1 hit each. Smith drove in 3 runs, Wren had 2 RBIs, and Adams and Allen had 1 RBI each. Allen and Smith scored 2 runs each. Dunham, Hester, Will Durden, Revels and Wren scored 1 run each.

I Locklear and T. Locklear led the Red Devils with 2 hits each. T. Locklear started on the mound and gave up 6 runs in 2-plus innings. I. Locklear allowed 8 runs – 2 earned – in his 3.1 innings on the hill. T. Ellerbe and T. Hammonds also saw time on the mound for Red Springs.

Coach Wade Pait’s Knights improved to 4-3 in the SAC-7 and 11-5 overall and will travel to Red Springs Thursday night.