With Sots bracing for a 'pollen bomb' there's a good chance that hay fever sufferers could find themselves with sniffly noses.

And while that can be an unavoidable inconvenience at work and when out and about, it's best to take steps to banish pollen from the home as much as possible. Hay fever at night is not only leaves you uncomfortable when you should be relaxing, but could also impact your sleep.

With that in mind, Hayley Thistleton, sleep expert at Sleep Seeker, pointed out a common washing mistake that people make in allergy season, writes the Mirror.

According to the sleeping ace, many will continue to dry their bedding as well as their clothes in their gardens as opposed to doing so inside the home where there is likely less pollen going about.

"Instead of hanging washing out to dry in the warmer months, it is best to dry them in a dryer if possible," the expert said. "This will stop pollen from attaching to your clothes outside whilst drying and help keep that pollen away from your skin."

And as well as making sure your clothing and bedding is dried indoors where possible, it's also important to wash your bedding regularly to help prevent any build-up that could aggravate your hay fever.

"As we enter allergy season it is a good idea to take stock of how long we have owned our bedding for as the older your bedding, the more skin cells, dust, sweat and oils get trapped inside of them," the pro comments.

"This is why it's so important to clean your bedding regularly; many people change their bed linen every two weeks or so. However, if you're struggling with allergy symptoms, try and wash your bedding every week to reduce particles and mites from building up."

Sharing further advice, Hailey said: "As well as keeping your bedding clean, try and wash your duvet every four months and your pillows every two months to keep on top of the allergies, and line both your pillows and mattress with an anti-allergy topper which can reduce the volume of dust mite build up."

It comes after another sleep expert recently shared a mistake that couples will often make when the warmer months come around.

According to 'The Sleep Geek' James Wilson you should double up on your duvets to cool down. He explains that this is not for using both, but instead allows each person in the bed to have their own duvet.

He says: "If you have a partner, sleep with two duvets instead of one. Usually in Northern European countries, like Denmark or Norway, couples have two duvets, so each person has their own when sleeping."

Don't miss the latest news from around Scotland and beyond - Sign up to our newsletter here.