The owner of a New York limousine company whose vehicle crashed when the brakes failed, killing 20 people, will go on trial in May after a judge overturned his previous plea deal.

Nauman Hussain ran the unlicensed limo company out of a motel his family owned in the town of Wilton, 40 miles north of Albany.

On October 6, 2018 a group of friends celebrating a 30th birthday hired a limo - with one of them texting her sister shortly before climbing in, saying the vehicle was 'in terrible condition'.

The brakes failed at 60mph, around 2pm, and the limo ran over an intersection near Schoharie, crashing into a ditch next to the Apple Barrel Country Store.

The driver, 17 passengers and two bystanders in the parking lot were killed. Among them were four sisters and their husbands.

Hussain accepted a plea deal in September 2021, agreeing to five years of probation and 1,000 hours of community service - an agreement that relatives of the victims found infuriatingly lenient.

In August 2022, state Supreme Court Justice Peter Lynch overturned the plea deal, and forced Hussain to stand trial.

The trial will begin on May 1 - despite a plea by Lee Kindlon, Hussain's lawyer, to delay the start of the trial by a week because his co-counsel, Joe Tacopina, is working on Donald Trump's defense in the Stormy Daniels hush money case. The judge rejected the request.

On Monday, it was agreed by the Schoharie County district attorney, Susan Mallery, Hussain's attorneys, and Lynch that the trial will need a pool of 1,500 potential jurors - a figure that represents five percent of Schoharie County's population, and illustrates how hard it will be to find jurors in the rural area who have not been affected in some way by the crash.

Kindlon, Hussain's attorney, told Lynch: 'I think finding a jury is going to be difficult.'

The lawyers expect to question 90 prospective jurors per day as they try to build a panel of 12 to decide whether Hussain was responsible for the nation's deadliest transportation disaster in more than a decade.

Mallery told the judge on Monday that she would need to use as many as 500 subpoenas to build the case, The Times Union reported.

Mallery submitted a 900-page profile of Hussain, in which she outlines previous 'bad acts' committed by Hussain, and asks the judge to allow her to use them at trial.

Lynch will make a decision in the coming weeks.

Hussain had more than 60 encounters with law enforcement, the paper reported, including parking tickets a 2014 incident when Hussain and his brother Haris were accused of impersonating one another during a traffic stop.

Kindlon and his team are appealing Lynch's original decision to revoke the plea deal.

The case has been complicated by Hussain's father, Shahed Hussain, who was a longtime FBI anti-terrorism informant with what the Times Union described as a 'sketchy business and criminal past'.

Questions have been asked as to whether the FBI's Albany bureau encouraged law enforcement to turn a blind eye to the limo business, to protest their source.

Before the crash, Shahed Hussain returned to his native Pakistan and has not been seen since.

The state Department of Motor Vehicles and the Department of Transportation have both come under strong criticism for allowing the limo to remain on the road.