Turbulent seasons for football clubs seem to follow a pattern.

First, the fans think their team will climb over the brow of the hill and recover. Then comes acceptance that the year is lost and just needs to end as soon as possible. Finally, the ultimate question poses itself: can things actually get worse?

Unfortunately for Chelsea fans, the answer to that regarding their 2022-23 is proving to be yes.

After sacking Graham Potter just seven months after hiring him to replace the sacked Thomas Tuchel, Chelsea appointed Frank Lampard, the man they sacked for Tuchel in 2021, as a caretaker manager until the end of the season. But the performances in the first three games of Lampard’s second spell in charge are yet to generate any upturn in form, or even much optimism.

Following a loss away to relegation candidates Wolverhampton Wanderers, Chelsea’s lacklustre display at Real Madrid saw Carlo Ancelotti’s Champions League holders cruise past them to secure a 2-0 win in the first leg of a quarter-final. The scoreline at the Bernabeu last Wednesday night could have been far more emphatic. Then, on Saturday, came a visit from Brighton & Hove Albion — a team who, at the start of this season, had failed to beat Chelsea in any of the clubs’ 14 previous league meetings.

They have now won against them home and away, with the weekend meeting at Stamford Bridge being something of a mismatch.

From the outset, Saturday did not look positive for Lampard’s side.

Moving away from the 5-3-2 they had used in Madrid, Chelsea started in a 4-4-2 shape when without the ball that was based on tight man-marking.

Here, centre-backs Wesley Fofana and Benoit Badiashile are playing higher than their full-backs, to man-mark Evan Ferguson and Alexis Mac Allister.

The problem with this approach is that it’s risky, considering Brighton’s passing combinations, fluid movements and individual ability in one-v-one situations. So it proved in the first half.

With Chelsea pushing up and man-marking Brighton, goalkeeper Robert Sanchez could go direct towards Kaoru Mitoma — the Japan winger’s dribbling ability needs no introduction.

On top of that, Pervis Estupinan constantly got the better of Christian Pulisic when it came to the Brighton left-back’s off-ball movement. Estupinan was always one step ahead, with the American forever reacting late.

In this example, Mac Allister makes a run into the box as Mitoma finds Estupinan overlapping out wide.

The Ecuadorian’s cross deflects off Trevoh Chalobah and falls for Mac Allister…

… who puts his shot into the side netting.

Chelsea’s eagerness to man-mark meant Brighton could access Mitoma directly and, with Estupinan reacting faster than Pulisic, exploiting a fragile home defence could not have been easier.

In another example, right-back Chalobah moves up to track Mitoma, but this merely creates space behind the Chelsea man, which Estupinan is looking to attack.

Again, he beats Pulisic and his run is found by Mac Allister…

… even if Estupinan’s shot is ultimately saved by Kepa Arrizabalaga.

As the first half continued, Brighton found multiple ways to exploit Chelsea’s man-marking policy, mainly looking to find Mitoma in one-v-one situations against Chalobah.

… and opening up the passing lane to Mitoma out wide.

After Moises Caicedo finds him, Mitoma manages to dribble past Chalobah. This forces Pulisic to leave his man and move across and, as a result, Mitoma can slip a ball inside to the now-free Estupinan…

… who squares it to Solly March. On this occasion, the Brighton right-winger’s shot is off-target, but the danger to Chelsea is clear and obvious.

Again, you can see their man-oriented 4-4-2 with Badiashile moving up across halfway to track Ferguson.

After Sanchez starts the build-up by playing the ball to Lewis Dunk, Raheem Sterling decides to mark the goalkeeper to limit Dunk’s passing options. With Conor Gallagher closing down Dunk, the centre-back decides to go back to Sanchez…

… and because of Sterling’s earlier decision, Brighton have an avenue to find the free Adam Webster.

From here, Webster plays a pass forward through a gap in the Chelsea block…

… to Julio Enciso, dropping deep and tracked by Fofana. Badiashile has also pushed up to mark Ferguson, remember.

Once the 19-year-old Paraguayan plays the ball behind the Chelsea centre-backs…

… they are both left in peculiar positions as Pascal Gross looks to find Enciso’s run. Meanwhile, on the far side of the pitch, Estupinan is once again ahead of Pulisic and Mitoma is isolated against Chalobah.

… who finds Mitoma out wide, with Estupinan’s underlapping run making things harder for full-back Chalobah.

Fortunately for Chelsea, Mitoma’s effort at goal goes wide.

This man-marking approach from Chelsea was a recipe for disaster. In the second half, they switched to a less aggressive 4-3-3, with Denis Zakaria (No 20 below) playing behind Gallagher and Enzo Fernandez in midfield.

The element of risk associated with their man-marking tactic was not the only problem Chelsea faced.

They also kept losing the ball far too easily. Too often, they would surrender possession right after reclaiming it, with Brighton’s counter-pressing prowess making things even more difficult.

In this example, Gallagher wins the ball after closing down Joel Veltman…

… then Mykhailo Mudryk tries to find Pulisic, but Caicedo is ready to counter-press…

… and dispossesses Pulisic to start the transition for Brighton…

… which eventually sees Mitoma dribbling past Chalobah. He plays a ball back for Mac Allister…

… whose shot goes wide. The pace of this counter, all stemming from Pulisic being caught on the ball outside his own penalty area, was breathtaking.

It continued to happen in the second half. Chelsea would win the ball back only to lose it seconds later.

Here, Pulisic’s poor first touch allows Mac Allister to pounce…

… and regain possession to start the Brighton transition.

It was quite fitting that both Brighton’s goals came from the problems Chelsea had in this game.

For the first, Sanchez manages to find Mitoma in a one-v-one because of the home side’s man-marking strategy.

After dribbling inside, the winger’s pass to Caicedo gets intercepted by Fernandez…

… but Badiashile then obligingly clears the ball straight to Mac Allister…

He then plays the ball into the path of Gross, who moved to right-back after Veltman had to go off injured. His run is untracked by Mudryk, leaving Ben Chilwell in a right pickle.

The time Gross has allows him to comfortably put the ball into the box…

For the second goal, Chelsea lost the ball not once but twice after initially winning it back.

On their own attacking transition, Joao Felix is immediately counter-pressed by three players and Dunk ends up regaining possession…

… but Brighton then lose it as March’s pass is intercepted by Reece James.

The England full-back’s poor first touch means March can correct his previous error, however.

… who wallops it into the top corner from long range to make it 2-1.

It would be mad not to credit Brighton’s performance — their fluid movement, passing combinations and counter-pressing cut through Chelsea on multiple occasions — but Lampard’s side did not help themselves with their approach.

The decision to go man-to-man was risky and their poor control of the ball after regaining possession of it kept them under constant pressure.

Chelsea’s next three games are against Real Madrid, Brentford and Arsenal — three teams who will pose a considerable threat.

So the question still hangs over this painful season: can it get worse?