The refrigerator is the single most important appliance and a staple in your kitchen. It keeps food & drinks cold and fresher for longer, ensuring the safety of you and your family. There is a surprising amount of variation between models, so it’s key you figure out what you need from this appliance. Choosing the right refrigerator is another decision you will need to think about, when designing your new kitchen!

With there being so much on the market, trying to choose the right option can be quite overwhelming. There are many features that will impact the overall way you are able to use this appliance. Think long and hard about what it is you want before rushing in.

Refrigerators come in a variety of shapes, sizes and styles, so it is essential to choose one that fits your kitchen space and your storage needs. For a small family, a compact refrigerator is likely to be enough. However, If you feel as though you need a greater capacity then opt for something bigger.

Many of our customers have already decided on this when they approach us. Some like the statement of a freestanding large “American style” fridge, but many opt to hide it and streamline the kitchen. Integrated refrigerators will fit seamlessly into your kitchen’s cabinetry and blend into your design; this ensures they will be a stylish addition and be hidden away a little more.

This doesn’t mean that a free-standing refrigerator doesn’t have its place in a stylish new kitchen. One of the largest benefits of a free-standing fridge and freezer is their ease of installation. Unlike an integrated fridge, that is built into the cabinetry, free-standing can be placed anywhere in your kitchen. Additionally, a free-standing refrigerator is typically the more affordable option. This means that if you’re working to a budget you could potentially get a higher-spec fridge and freezer with perhaps more features.

Once you’ve figured out the size, storage capacity and integration it’s time to consider the type you need. There are several types of refrigerators available on the market including:

Bottom-freeze refrigerators are popular due to their ease of use and accessibility. This fridge has a freezer compartment located at the bottom, which makes it easier to access frequently used items in the fridge. You can also choose from different width sizes, if you prefer a larger space for your chilled and frozen goods.

Side-by-side refrigerators have the freezer compartment located on one side and the refrigerator on the other. The doors are typically narrower than those on other types of refrigerators. They offer wide and convenient storage space, making them a brilliant option for larger households. The doors open outwards so you can see everything you are storing on both sides.

French door refrigerators, similarly to side-by-side refrigerators, have two doors opening from the middle. The difference lies in the freezer compartment being located at the bottom. Typically, these have wide doors, making it easier to store larger items within the fridge.

Top-freeze refrigerators are an older style traditional type of fridge-freezer that has a freezer located at the top. While they are not as common as they once were, many households occasionally use these as they are affordable and suitable for smaller households.

Once you’ve decided on the style and size of the fridge, the next thing you need to consider is the additional features. Some of the more common features to look for include:

Siemens’ HyperFresh technology helps you store different types of food in their own unique optimal conditions. It is designed to keep food fresher for longer and reduce food waste by creating these optimal conditions; selecting the right temperature and humidity.

Siemens iSensoric technology is based on a series of sensors that are strategically placed throughout the refrigerator unit. These sensors monitor and regulate the internal temperature, humidity, and various other key factors to ensure the freshness and quality of food stored inside. This groundbreaking technology helps minimize food waste and improves the overall quality of your food by keeping it fresh for longer periods of time.

There are also options from Siemens with other innovative technology such as FreshSense and NoFrost. These all ensure that meat and fish remain fresh in a dedicated drawer set to 0°C, and a fridge-freezer drawer with adjustable humidity keeps fruit and vegetables fresh. The MultiAirFlow system circulates air to cool down the food quickly and maintain an even temperature. These features work best in conjunction with one another.

Integrated wine coolers that are built into the refrigerator are also a popular addition to many modern kitchens. Typically, this will be in the form of a separate compartment where the temperature can be controlled. This is a must-have for the wine connoisseur that is limited on space in the kitchen. Or why not have a completely separate wine cooler as we have talked about already!

If you want to enjoy cold, filtered water with ice, without having to open the refrigerator this is a feature not to skip. Crushed ice, shards, cubed ice, cold water, they offer some really great options! These types of dispensers are built into the door, freeing up more space inside the fridge. However, it’s important to note that this feature can increase the price of the fridge and may require additional maintenance to keep the dispenser clean and functioning properly.

As a kitchen designer and installer, Russ Deacon have built up numerous contacts over the years. For all our kitchen appliance needs, we consistently like to work with Siemens and Neff for their high-quality and well-engineered design.

Both Siemens and Neff refrigerators come in a variety of styles mentioned above. We are more than happy to guide you through their range of options to help you make an informed decision. We are also able to provide advice on how to maintain and care for the appliance to ensure it lasts as long as possible.

Choosing the right refrigerator is important as it really impacts the usage of your new kitchen as well as your family, so you need to make sure it is big enough for your needs. We hope you now have a clearer understanding of the most effective way to make a decision on which fridge you would like.

We have been developing and installing kitchens for over 3 decades. We know what works well and how and where best to install a refrigerator into your new kitchen. Ensure your household’s food is fresh and safe by investing in quality appliances. If you have any questions please give the Russ Deacon team a call at 01323642075 or fill out our contact form and we will be in touch shortly.

We look forward to planning your kitchen adventure with you.