Dividends are nice to receive and they’re even nicer when they arrive from companies that hold zero long-term debt on the books. That type of dynamic makes it more likely that such dividends will continue to be paid (without interruption) and that they may increase as time goes by.

Investor satisfaction is never guaranteed, of course, and such stocks might have other problems, but it’s likely that “zero long-term debt” and “dividends paid” is the outcome of reasonably decent management. For this screen, I’ve added “trades below book value” as another factor.

Newmark Group (NASDAQ: NMRK) is a real estate services company involved in brokerage, leasing, property management and related activities. From corporate headquarters in New York, New York, the company recently helped with the recapitalization of 15 Necco Street in Boston, Massachusetts.

Earnings per share over the most recently reported 12-months are -88%. The record over the past 5 years shows -19.80%. With a price-earnings ratio of 14.18, Newmark Group trades at 92% of its book value. Market capitalization is $1.116 billion. The company pays a dividend of 1.87%.

The daily price chart for Newmark Group looks like this:

Ternium S. A. (NYSE: TX), based in Luxembourg, manufactures the type of steel products, according to the company’s website, “used in the roofs of houses and factories, in the mezzanines of buildings, and in the insulating walls of the most modern offices.” Market capitalization is $8.296 billion.

The earnings per share over the past 5 years shows growth of 14.90% and, over the most recently reported 12 months, shows -53%. The company trades at 72% of its book value with a price-earnings ratio of 4.79: this is value stock territory. Ternium pays a dividend of 10.42%.

Washington Federal (NASDAQ: WAFD) is a regional bank based in Seattle with branch offices in 8 western and southwestern states. This year’s earnings per share show an increase of 41.70% and the EPS growth over the past 5 years comes in at 11.80%. The bank’s market capitalization is $1.899 billion.

Following the recent sell-off in the sector, this stock might be attracting the interest of value investors given these factors: the price-earnings ratio of 7.66 is low compared to that of the S&P 500 and it can be purchased at a 5% discount to book value. Washington Federal pays a 3.40% dividend.

The daily price chart is here: