The 18th annual Vincentric Best Fleet Value in America Awards were announced with Ford earning nine awards and Toyota earning five.

Ford claimed three of the four overall awards for the Truck category, and six of nine awards for the Van category. Leading the charge were the Transit Connect cargo and passenger vans, which won their segments for the sixth and seventh time, respectively. Rounding out Ford's Van winners were the T150 cargo, T250 cargo, T350 passenger, and the E-Transit 350 cargo. Ford's Truck category winners included the Maverick Hybrid XL for the second time, the F-250 XL for the third time, and the F-350 XL for the seventh time.

Toyota's winning vehicles were spread across multiple categories. The Tundra earned its debut win for Full-Size 1/2-Ton Pickup, and the RAV4 Hybrid LE followed in the footsteps of its gasoline-powered counterpart with its first win for a Compact SUV. Additional winners for Toyota were the Corolla SE, the Camry Hybrid LE, and the Sienna LE with an impressive eighth win in the Minivan segment.

Other noteworthy winners included the Subaru Outback Base with its sixth overall and third consecutive victory; the Lincoln Nautilus Base with its fifth win in a row; the Mercedes-Benz Sprinter 1500 with its fourth consecutive win; and the Dodge Durango GT RWD earning the Durango's ninth overall win for Large SUV.

Other brands with award winners were Audi, Chevrolet, Jaguar, Kia, Nissan, Tesla, and Volvo.

"The Vincentric Best Fleet Value in America Awards provide guidance to fleet professionals by identifying vehicles that will bring proven value to their fleets," said Vincentric president David Wurster. "Managing costs is a critical part of fleet management, and our awards give valuable insight into which vehicles offer the lowest lifecycle costs in their segments.”

To determine the 2023 Vincentric Best Fleet Value in America Awards, Vincentric performed a cost of ownership analysis measuring over 2,000 vehicle configurations based on typical fleet use.

Using eight different cost factors - depreciation, fees & taxes, financing, fuel, insurance, maintenance, opportunity cost, and repairs - each vehicle was evaluated in all 50 states plus D. C. using 28 different lifecycle scenarios.

Winners were identified by determining which vehicles had the lowest fleet lifecycle cost in most scenarios within its segment.

Here is the full list of winners: