Adamawa’s Gov. Ahmadu Fintiri on Tuesday in Yola expressed appreciation of voters for their overwhelming support at Saturday’s supplementary governorship election which ended in his re-election. The governor, a candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) also commended INEC for conducting free, fair and credible elections. Fintiri scored 430,788 votes to defeat his closest opponent,…

Adamawa’s Gov. Ahmadu Fintiri on Tuesday in Yola expressed appreciation of voters for their overwhelming support at Saturday’s supplementary governorship election which ended in his re-election.

The governor, a candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) also commended INEC for conducting free, fair and credible elections.

Fintiri scored 430,788 votes to defeat his closest opponent, Sen. Aishatu Binani of the All Progressives Congress (APC) who secured 398,788 votes at the election.

In his acceptance speech, Fintiri promised to deliver more democracy dividends for the development of the state.

“You voted for continuity in functional public school system and payment of West African Examination Council’s and National Education Council’s examination fees for our children.

“You voted for continuity in the provision of healthcare and health insurance that make it easier for the vulnerable to access quality health service with ease.

“You voted for continuity in the provision of urban and rural infrastructure, policies that empower our women and youths and continuity of justice and fair play,’’ he said.

Fintiri particularly commended the institutional capacity of INEC at the election, especially its use of new technology in the conduct of the exercise.

“Technological innovation introduced in the conduct of the election and the untiring commitment of the management and staff of INEC added tremendous value to the credibility of the election,’’ the governor said.

Fintiri thanked and appreciated national and international election observers, the media, security agencies and all other stakeholders for the role they played in ensuring free, fair and credible election.

Hungary's government on Wednesday widened its temporary ban on the imports of Ukrainian agricultural products to include honey, wine, bread, sugar, and a range of meat and vegetable products. The list of items to be banned were revealed in a government decree, after Budapest announced on Saturday a measure to halt the import of grain,…

Russia says prevented 'sabotage' of energy facility in Crimea

Russia's FSB domestic security agency said Wednesday it had detained a Russian-Ukrainian citizen suspected of planning to "sabotage" an energy infrastructure site in annexed Crimea. Russian lawmakers this week toughened penalties for "terrorism" and sabotage as Moscow pursues its military offensive against Ukraine. The FSB in the city of Kerch "prevented the preparation of sabotage…

Buhari returns to Abuja after 8-day visit to Saudi Arabia

President Muhammadu Buhari has returned to Abuja after eight-day official visit to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, where he also performed the Umrah (Lesser Hajj). The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Nigerian leader departed Saudi Arabia via King Abdulaziz International Airport Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, on Wednesday. NAN reports that Saudi Government officials,…

Popular Nigerian musician Peter Okoye of the Psquare has urged Nigerian and Napoli striker Victor Osimhen, to move on after their team's defeat to AC Milan in the UEFA champions league. He posted the short message with a caption and image of the Nigeran striker on his Twitter handle immediately after the match. He said:…

US Supreme Court to weigh in on abortion pill ban

The US Supreme Court will step into the divisive and emotional battle over the abortion drug mifepristone Wednesday, when it is expected to rule on tough new court-ordered restrictions on the widely used pill. It sets up the conservative-leaning bench for its most significant intervention on reproductive rights since a seismic ruling 10 months ago…

The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has cancelled Ikono/Ini Federal Constituency supplementary election, held on April 15, in Akwa Ibom State, following reported incidences of violence

The All Progressives Congress (APC) cleared all four House of Assembly seats in supplementary elections conducted in Niger State over the weekend.

APC under pressure to cede Reps Speakership seat to North West

Ahead of the proclamation of the 10th National Assembly, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) is under pressure to cede the seat of the Speaker of the House of Representatives to the northwest geopolitical zone of the country.

The Senator for Gombe State Central zone, Danjuma Goje, has been expelled by his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC). The chairman APC in his Kashere ward, Tanimu Abdullahi announced the suspension to newsmen. He alleged the Senator of committing ten offences including failure to grace the flag off of APC's governorship campaign and general…

The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has called on the police to prosecute the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) for Adamawa state, Hudu Yunusa Ari. The INEC stated this following Tuesday's closed-door meeting of all its National Commissioners at its national headquarters in Abuja over the highly controversial supplementary governorship election conducted in Adamawa State over…

The Inspector General of Police (IGP), Usman Baba, has ordered for the replacement of the Commissioner of Police on election duty in Adamawa State, Mohammed Barde. This was disclosed by Force spokesperson, Muyiwa Adejobi, on Tuesday in Abuja. According to Adejobi, the IGP ordered that the Commissioner of Police in charge of Gombe State, CP…