Tony Blackburn has been forced to pull out of his BBC Radio 2 show again and postpone gigs on doctors orders amid an ongoing health issue.

The DJ, 80, was replaced by stand-in Johnnie Walker on his Saturday show, Sounds Of The Sixties, for the second time.

He later shared an update to Twitter, to inform his fans that he needed 'some time off to recover' from a nasty chest infection.

Tony explained that he will be off air for the next few weeks and will have to reschedule his live shows that were set to take place in Swindon and Redhill.

The broadcaster explained: 'Hello folks. Just to let you all know, I've had a little recurrence of the chest infection I had a few weeks ago.'

Tony continued: 'My Dr has told me off for not taking some time to recover properly so I am having a break from the radio this weekend and, sadly, I have had to postpone the Sounds of the 60s shows at Swindon and Redhill next week too.

'New dates are already in the diary though and I really do hope to be back with you soon.

'Just want to thank you all for your kind words, I am listening to the doctors and this time I will recover properly, which I didn’t do before.

'To those of you who have booked to see the show next week I’m so sorry but we are arranging new dates and your tickets will be OK xx.'

Johnnie, 78, took over on Saturday, announcing: 'It's my pleasure to be with you the next couple of hours, so let's start the normal way.'

Last month, Tony sparked concern among fans when he was absent from his BBC Radio 2 show again.

The presenter, who hosts Sounds of the 60s between 6am and 8am on Saturdays, confirmed he was ill at home in a post he shared on Friday evening.

Taking to Twitter, Tony wrote: 'Sorry to say I won't be doing my shows over the weekend as I have a very annoying virus which is taking its time to go away.'

'Tomorrow on Sounds Of The Sixties you will hear my special 'Happy Birthday show' and on Sunday there will be a recorded Golden Hour. Have a great evening.'

Tony was inundated with messages from fans wishing him well, with one writing: 'Best wishes for a speedy recovery, Tony.'

Another added: 'Sorry to hear you are unwell Tony I hope you are making a good recovery and will soon be back on the air.'

A third wrote: 'Oh sorry to hear that I love your show on Saturday mornings - take lots of care and hope to hear you back soon.'