A piece of paper in a diary found at the home of a UK nurse accused of killing babies on a neonatal ward included the words: “I killed them. I don't know if I killed them,” a jury has been told.

Lucy Letby, 33, denies murdering seven babies and attempting to murder 10 others between June 2015 and June 2016 at the Countess of Chester Hospital where she worked.

She was first arrested in July 2018 on suspicion of attacking infants in her care – two years after she worked her last shift at the hospital's neonatal unit.

Prosecutor Philip Astbury told her trial at Manchester Crown Court that a 2016 diary was found in her house at that time.

READ MORE:

* Lucy Letby murder trial: Mother heard baby's ‘horrendous’ screams before nurse told her to leave

* Lucy Letby trial: Murder-accused UK nurse told to leave grieving couple after son's death, jury hears

* Lucy Letby trial: Nurse's colleague thought 'not again' after second baby collapsed

A green Post-it note, shown to jurors at the start of Letby's trial, was found inside the diary, Astbury said.

Part of the note read: “I don't deserve to live. I killed them on purpose because I'm not good enough to care for them”, ”I am a horrible evil person” and in capital letters “I am evil I did this”, the Daily Mail reports.

An A4-size piece of paper containing similarly jumbled handwritten notes was also found in the diary, the court heard.

One sentence read: “I killed them. I don't know if I killed them. Maybe I did. Maybe this is down to me.” The words “kill me” written in bold and circled could also be seen.

This court artist sketch by Elizabeth Cook shows Lucy Letby appearing in the dock at Manchester Crown Court.

Ben Myers KC, defending, told jurors the Post-it note was the “anguished outpouring of a young woman” and shows the “fear and despair when she realises the enormity of what's being said about her, in the moment, to herself”.

Three handwritten notes were also found in a handbag in her bedroom.

The notes contained closely written words that filled the pages and included declarations of love for a doctor colleague, who cannot be identified for legal reasons, the Daily Mail reports.

Next to his name was “I loved you” and “my best friend”.

An annual leave request form from Letby was found in a blue folder of papers during a search of Letby’s workplace.

Sentences scrawled across the form included: “I trusted you with everything and loved you”, “I really can't do this any more, I just want life to be as it was”, “I want to be happy in the job that I loved ... really don't belong anywhere, I'm a problem to those who do know me and it would be much easier for everyone if I just went away”.

Astbury told the court Letby wrote in her diary the initials of some of her alleged victims on significant dates, The Guardian reports.

The babies’ initials were recorded on dates such as the day they were born, the days they were allegedly attacked and the day they died.

Letby appeared to become tearful as photographs of her bedroom were shown to the jury on Monday (local time).

The trial, which started last October, continues.