If you have a different feeling about the Stars going into the playoffs this year compared to last year, you’re not alone.

“Last year, we were the lower seed, so there wasn’t too much pressure on us,” Jason Robertson said. “We just squeaked in and we were just trying to beat the Flames, beat the team that everyone picked ahead of us. But this year, these are just two great teams (Stars and Wild) and this can go any one way.”

The Stars did plenty to answer the critics over the course of the regular season. The playoffs, though, are a different beast. Let’s take a look at five big questions for the Stars heading into Game 1 against the Wild on Monday.

The Stars spent all season trying to find a third member to complete the second line with Tyler Seguin and Mason Marchment, including Denis Gurianov, Ty Dellandrea, Radek Faksa, and others. None of those options proved to be a satisfactory long-term solution for this season, so at the trade deadline, Jim Nill got Max Domi.

The early returns were fruitful. Marchment immediately snapped out of his drought and the trio looked smooth for two games. In the first period of the third game, Seguin left with an injury. A few days later, Marchment left with a knee injury and was sidelined for basically the remainder of the regular season, coming back just in time for a warm-up game in the finale.

All three players are healthy and available heading into the postseason, and how deep the Stars go will depend in large part on how they perform. There are no questions about the Stars’ top line, and their third line of Wyatt Johnston, Jamie Benn and Evgenii Dadonov has been smooth and productive. If Johnston’s line is truly the third line, the team is in great shape. If they have to play an elevated role as a second line, it’s not a death sentence but things can get dicey.

If the early showings of Seguin, Domi and Marchment are signs of things to come, the Stars should be excited. Seguin has proven to be more than capable when surrounded by proper talent, Domi is an offensive playmaker and Marchment has the size and skill combination to make an impact. They just need to stay on the ice, consistently do what they’ve shown to be capable of, and, like the first and third lines, continue to get better with every game they get under their belt.

Robertson broke out as a superstar last season, scoring 41 goals to follow up his Calder Trophy runner-up campaign. However, he had a tough introduction to playoff hockey. In a series against the Flames in which goals were at a premium, Robertson was unable to continue at the clip the team had grown accustomed to. In the seven games, Robertson had one goal and three assists. He’s had two games with that stat line just in the last couple of weeks.

Robertson is not just a scorer; he’s a playmaker. He’s great in every area of the offensive zone and his game has clearly grown this season as he shattered records and scored 109 points. Robertson doesn’t have to be a goal-scoring machine, although it certainly wouldn’t hurt. But the Stars will need a lot more from Robertson in a series than four points over seven games.

The playoffs being a time of adjustment for a young player is nothing new nor alarming. Robertson was just 22 years old last year, and the style of play that took over the series against the Flames was not Robertson’s style, so the adjustment was even harder. This year, Robertson has to be a big part of the scoresheet if the Stars are to advance.

To build off of the point about Robertson, this will be Johnston’s first taste of NHL playoffs. How will he adjust? Stars head coach Pete DeBoer isn’t terribly concerned.

“I don’t think I have to say anything,” DeBoer said. “When you meet Wyatt, you spend time with him, this guy is unflappable. He’s mature beyond his years. He’s taken a junior team deep in the playoffs, he’s won a gold medal at the under-18s and he lives with Joe Pavelski. Joe does all of the talking that needs to be done with Wyatt.”

DeBoer makes a good point, and if Johnston’s resume says anything about him, it’s that he continues to elevate as the situation calls for. Johnston has gone from questions about whether he would make the opening-night roster, to whether he would play more than nine games, to finishing the season as a top-six forward in even-strength minutes on a Stars team that had 108 points. Johnston is now being used on the penalty kill, in the final minute of close games and to start overtime periods. No moment seems to big for the 19-year-old and he showed that unflappable demeanor at the interview podium on Saturday as well.

“They’re a great team but, at the end of the day, I think we have what it takes to beat anyone,” Johnston said. “If we play the way we’re capable, I think we’re going to win the Stanley Cup.”

Johnston is now tasked with taking his poised demeanor and on-ice regular-season success and translating it to the playoffs. That can be a tough task, even for the best of players, as mentioned above with Robertson. Miro Heiskanen’s first playoff showing in 2019 included four points in 13 games. How Johnston will perform will be fascinating to watch.

If there’s one player I think is the most important to the Stars’ postseason hopes, it’s Jake Oettinger. There will be more on him to come, but a key question is how the team will perform around him, offensively and defensively. Will they provide him enough goal support to not waste a valiant effort, as they did last season against Calgary? Will they do enough in front of him to not unleash a plethora of odd-man rushes that force him to make too many superhuman saves, as was the case for a big stretch last season?

Oettinger will be up to the task. The Stars need to make sure they do enough to support his efforts.

If his six-game run at the end of the season is any indication, Harley’s ceiling in these playoffs is incredibly high. The Stars have taken a careful approach with Harley’s development, from letting him play all year in the AHL to tasking him with little other than five-on-five responsibilities upon his elevation to the NHL. Harley has answered the bell at each juncture.

As is the case with Johnston, this will be Harley’s first crack at the NHL playoffs. How will he respond to the elevated speed and intensity, especially when he has just barely gotten a taste of the NHL regular season? The Stars need help on the blue line, which is why Harley got the call-up in the first place. It’s entirely plausible that DeBoer will turn loose Harley as the situation calls for it. Harley enters the postseason as a third-pairing defenseman but his ceiling, if he’s able to put everything together and translate it over, could have him as the second-best or second-most-important defenseman on the team.