STRIPPED, bound and blindfolded, petrified IRA man Sandy Lynch was accused by the terror group’s Nutting Squad of being a British informer.

Lying face down on a bed in a darkened room, Lynch felt a chin rest on his head — and then came a sinister voice.

The interrogator, his breath heavy, snarled in his ear: “You know who I am, Sandy?” Lynch later recalled: “I said yes. He said it didn’t really matter because where I was going I wouldn’t be able to tell anybody.”

The man hissing the questions was the IRA’s fearsome Witch Finder General, Freddie Scappaticci, whose death at age 77 was announced on Monday this week.

A sadistic, porn-obsessed killer, he headed the terror group’s Gestapo-like unit charged with rooting out any informers in its ranks — known as touts.

In 1990, the Nutting Squad had come for IRA volunteer, and police informer, Lynch.

He later told a court Scappaticci had warned if he did not admit to being a tout, he would “get a jab in the a*** and wake up in south Armagh”. There, Scappaticci would have been able to “talk to me the way he wanted, hung upside down in a cattle shed.

Lynch added: “He said it didn’t matter about me screaming because no one would be able to hear.”

Yet, in a twist worthy of a John Le Carre spy novel, the man charged with weaseling out informants in the IRA was HIMSELF Britain’s top spy.

Described by an Army general as “our golden egg”, Scappaticci lived an astonishing double life at the heart of the Provo terror machine.

To IRA godfathers he was known as Scap, a Belfast brickie who rose to become the torturer-in-chief of the Nutting Squad.

The unit got its name from its trademark of firing a bullet into the back of the “nut”, or head, of a victim once a taped confession had been extracted. The squad is believed to have shot dead 30 alleged spies — with Scappaticci linked to at least 18 of those executions.

But meanwhile, to the British intelligence service, Scap was Agent 6126 — codenamed Stakeknife.

An associate of ex-Sinn Fein chief Gerry Adams and one-time Provisional IRA boss Martin McGuinness, Army intelligence estimates his tips saved 180 lives. He is also said to have provided the intelligence that led to the Death on the Rock killing of three IRA members by the SAS in Gibraltar in 1988.

But for over a decade it seems he was allowed to maintain his cover while sending other British agents to their death.

His double life was one of the most bloody chapters in a dirty war. Since 2016 the former head of Bedfordshire Police, Jon Boutcher, has been investigating murder and torture linked to Scappaticci, and the role played by security services including MI5.

So how was it that the IRA’s most barbarous torturer become “the jewel in the crown” of the British intelligence service?

The son of an Italian immigrant father, who ran a chip shop and ice-cream van, Alfredo Scappaticci was born in 1946 in the Markets area of Belfast. Short and barrel-chested, he was a talented footballer, and Nottingham Forest tried to sign him at age 16 but he became homesick in England and left after three weeks.

Back in Belfast he became a brick-layer and joined the IRA at the start of the Troubles. In 1971, along with hundreds of other Republicans, he was interned without trial in Long Kesh prison. There he mixed with IRA high-ups including Adams.

Released in 1974, he quickly rose through the IRA ranks, with fellow Provos noting he was handy with his fists. The moustachioed James Bond fan’s brutality and cunning made him ideal for Nutting Squad duty. He would preside over kangaroo courts in which alleged informers were branded with red-hot pokers and beaten on the soles of their feet.

After extracting a confession, the squad would tell them they were being driven home. But the car would stop on waste ground or in a quiet country lane. The captive was then told to kneel, their sentence was read out and they were shot in the back of the head with pistols.

Sometimes a £20 note would be shoved into the dead man’s hand — a gruesome warning to others tempted to be a paid informer.

But dad-of-seven Scappaticci’s own touting began after he was arrested in the 1970s for a building trade VAT scam, after which he agreed to work for the British fraud squad as an informer. As he progressed to become a senior IRA member, an approach was made by British military intelligence section the Force Research Unit (FRU) who realised his huge spying potential for them.

Now boss of the IRA’s internal police, he was able to interrogate any volunteer about any operation and pass on the terror group’s darkest secrets to his British handlers.

As a state-run superspy, he was on around £80,000 A YEAR — and when Loyalist paras planned a hit on him in 1987, the FRU was alerted and, terrified of losing their man on the inside, created an alternative target.

A false tip-off that 66-year-old retired taxi driver Francisco Notar-Antonio was an IRA godfather led to him being gunned down by Loyalist terrorists in front of his grandchildren. The FRU’s precious asset, Stakeknife, was then safe to carry on his dirty dealings.

Meanwhile, in January 1990, the Nutting Squad came for Sandy Lynch. Lynch recalls Scappaticci “asking me about my wife, he knew she had had a miscarriage”, and added: “He asked me how she would feel having to come down to identify me — and he would make sure I had no face.”

Lynch confessed but the torture house was raided by cops before he could be shot. Stakeknife had left.

CID, unaware Scappaticci was a spy, found his thumb print in the house but he had fled to Dublin. An alibi was concocted and he returned to Belfast in 1992, and was arrested then released without charge — the FRU was keen for him to carry on his undercover work.

But the IRA now suspected their spy-hunter and sidelined him from the Nutting Squad. He likely escaped being found down a country lane, his own face shot off, because that would have embarrassed the IRA leadership who had appointed him.

In 2003, Scappaticci was finally unmasked by a former FRU operative. He was spirited to England where MI5 told him the IRA were only too aware he had been a spy.

Yet cocky Scappaticci, used to playing two hands, rejected protective custody. Instead, he flew back to Belfast and, in a press conference, brazenly denied he was Stakeknife.

The IRA, then in the midst of the peace process, did not want to admit their own secret police chief was a British tout and so went along with the charade. But Stakeknife later moved to a safe house in England where a court injunction prevented journalists from approaching him.

Meanwhile former chief constable Jon Boutcher’s £35million Operation Kenova probe was trying to unravel Scappaticci’s blood-soaked career.

Mr Boutcher said in 2018: “I am investigating any role of the Provisional IRA, or the security forces, into these offences.

“The families of the victims deserve to know what happened and nothing could ever justify the abduction and brutal murder of these poor victims.

“These offences were committed by cowards and it’s time the truth about those involved came out.”

The same year, Scappaticci received a suspended three-month sentence for possession of extreme pornographic images. They included pictures of women having sex with dogs and horses. Pale, and appearing unwell, he told the court he didn’t get any sexual gratification from the images of bestiality.

He said he was suffering from depression and had attempted suicide. It emerged he had suffered a stroke in 2014 and had a history of heart attacks.

On Monday it was revealed he had died of unknown causes, and he was buried last week.

Mr Boutcher said he now hoped “people may now feel more able to talk”. His interim report will be released later this year.

Whatever the inquiry turns up, Scappaticci’s blood-drenched story is a gruesome reminder of the depravity to which the fighting in Northern Ireland sank.

Stakeknife’s death means that he escaped the punishment for touting that he knew only too well — a bullet in the back of the nut.

THE Troubles in Northern Ireland were a dirty conflict, and no aspect of the brutal fighting was dirtier than the saga of Freddie Scappaticci.

This courageous but cold-blooded ex-bricklayer, whose very nickname of Stakeknife exuded menace, was reputed to live an extraordinary double life as both the Provisional IRA’s head of internal security and a British agent.

His position as the Republicans’ chief spycatcher made him invaluable to British intelligence, but protecting his cover meant the police and Army often had to turn a blind eye to his ruthless activities, even where innocent lives were lost.

There are allegations Stakeknife’s unit was responsible for at least 30 deaths, while he has been directly linked to the murder of 18 suspected IRA informers.

But, ultimately, the ends justified the means. Due in part to the crucial information supplied by Stakeknife, the IRA was destroyed from within.

Trust among its members collapsed. By the early 1990s, eight in every ten operations in Belfast were being thwarted. As its capacity to wage war collapsed, the Republican movement was forced to the negotiating table.

The peace process was effectively a long negotiation over the terms of surrender.

Kieran Conway, a former head of IRA Intelligence, recalled that at this time “the attrition rate was appalling, it was clear we were losing the war, if we had not lost it already.”