Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene (R-Ga.) is wrong, but that’s not new.

The problem, though, is that as long as she maintains her prominent place among House Republicans, there’s a chance she could move to other positions of power. There has even been talk — although nothing remotely close to a substantial confirmation — of a possibility she becomes Trump’s vice presidential pick! This time, she’s wrong about the war in Ukraine, in which that country is continuing its attempt to fend off Russian leader Vladimir Putin’s forces — military personnel who’ve been consistently defeated in some of their key strategic objectives, although the violence continues. Greene evidently took leaked materials originating with a now criminally charged 21-year-old to mean that it was at least reasonable to suspect U. S. troops were operating in Ukraine in a combat capacity despite public assurances to the contrary. She again missed the truth.

“US troops are not fighting in Ukraine,” Jacqui Heinrich, a journalist with Fox, said on Twitter in direct response to a post from Greene. “NSC’s John Kirby tells Fox there is a small military presence at the Embassy in conjunction with the Defense Attaché’s office working on accountability of material – not providing battlefield support.” The NSC is the federal entity known as the National Security Council, and working on accountability of material would seemingly mean tracking some of the military equipment that the U. S. has very openly provided for Ukrainian use — equipment around which there have sometimes been restrictions for its utilization on the battlefield.

Greene had claimed that the individual responsible for the leaks “told the truth about troops being on the ground in Ukraine and a lot more.” Except, no he didn’t. She also insisted he was being targeted by prosecuting authorities in connection to his identity, including as a white man — which is ridiculous. It’s not like there isn’t an entirely substantive criminal case against him drawing from established elements of U. S. law. She’s inserting a fake controversy into the unfolding dispute, like claiming Trump is somehow being criminally targeted in Manhattan for his politics when it’s actually over allegedly criminal acts that have been prosecuted in other defendants’ cases many times!

US troops are not fighting in Ukraine.

NSC's John Kirby tells Fox there is a small military presence at the Embassy in conjunction with the Defense Attaché's office working on accountability of material – not providing battlefield support. https://t.co/rmqXeVPaTa