The 2023 tight end class is one of the strongest in recent NFL draft history. There are several starting-caliber players who offer options deep into Day 3. There are plenty with big frames to help them as blockers and receivers.

The best receivers have room to grow as blockers because of their size and hands. The best blockers have the potential to become impact receivers because of their athleticism and smarts.

Here are Sporting News' rankings of the NFL Draft's 10 best tight ends, a loaded group that's topped by a few immediate impact rookies:

Mayer stood out as a go-to playmaker for the Fighting Irish with his combination of athleticism, hands and route-running. He both could stretch the field and finish well in the red zone. He has the frame with which to get physical, both in his routes and in his blocking. He can get strong all-around in that capacity, too.

Kincaid can line up everywhere in the NFL and thrive as a receiver. He also is a plus athlete with the hands and natural route-running skills to match. If he can improved as a blocker, he can be more effective in-line than "move."

Given his strong, physical frame, Washington is a natural as a daunting run blocker. He is a bit raw but has shown flashes that he can be a special receiver. Washington isn't an exactly a project, but he would better off in a complementary role at first.

Musgrave is another high-upside receiving prospect with rare size and quickness. He also can learn how to use his massive frame better as a blocking asset.

LaPorta is arguably the most well-rounded tight end in the class because of his experience as a reliable short-to-intermediate receiver and willing run blocker. He is more of the classic option at the position.

Kraft has ideal strength, size and athleticism to be a plus receiver and blocker in the league. He needs to put in work his hands, route-running and technique to become more consistent in both capacities.

Latu has proved to be a solid blocking tight end because of his smarts and versatility. He has the skills to grow into a more impactful receiver.

Between his size and athleticism, Kuntz has a ton of receiving upside, but as a smaller-school prospect, he needs work on his hands, routes and blocking to make a big impact in the NFL.

Mallory is the classic, athletic, agile receiving-forward talent at the position. He comes with some untapped upside as a blocker, too.

Whyle will come into the league with plenty of natural receiving skills, a great foundation for his development when it comes to using his frame better to get open and hands better to be a more consistent pass-catcher.