So, Summer is almost here! I can tell because it’s no longer dark by 4:30 pm. That means all our favorite summer shows, and new ones, are on their way! Freeform had my favorite last year with Cruel Summer. So when is season 2 returning? What else is coming? We’ve got the news for you!

So, Freeform’s highest-rated series, Cruel Summer, will return this summer for season 2 on Monday, June 5, at 9:00 p.m. EDT! The series will have a 2-hour season premiere before moving to its regular 10:00 pm slot the following week.

Season 2 of Cruel Summer will take place in an idyllic waterfront town in the Pacific Northwest. The next chapter of the hit series follows the rise and fall of an intense teenage friendship between Megan, Isabella, and Megan’s best friend Luke seemingly because of the love triangle that blossomed and the mystery that would impact all of their lives going forward. Similar to season one, the story will be told from three different timelines, but this time surrounding Y2K.

The series stars Sadie Stanley (The Goldbergs), Lexi Underwood (Sneakerella), Griffin Gluck (Tall Girl Series), KaDee Strickland (Private Practice), Lisa Yamada (Missing), and Sean Blakemore (All Rise). Paul Adelstein (The Menu) and Braeden De La Garza (The Quest) will recur.

Cruel Summer comes from studio eOne and was created by Bert V. Royal. Elle Triedman serves as the showrunner. Executive producers include Triedman, Bill Purple, Tia Napolitano, as well as Iron Ocean Productions’ Jessica Biel and Michelle Purple. The series is produced and distributed internationally by eOne.

Next, Freeform’s Grown-ish kicks off its sixth and final season this summer by debuting the first half of its sixth season on Wednesday, June 28, at 10:00 p.m. EDT.

In some exciting news, Justine Skye and Tara Raani have been upped to series regulars. Skye plays Annika, a funny, sharp, extremely ambitious future media mogul who chose Cal U because it was best for her brand. Raani plays Zaara, a first-generation Indian American. She is a junior, type-A overachiever with a lot of swagger. Zaara is queer and open with her sexuality.

Finally, the new adult animated comedy, Praise Petey, will premiere on Friday, July 21, at 10:00 p.m. EDT with two back-to-back episodes each week as part of “Family Guy” Friday.

The series follows Petey, a New York City “it” girl who has it all until her life comes crashing down around her. As luck would have it, a mysterious gift from her father gives her a new lease on life: She’s going to “lean into” modernizing his small-town cult.

The series stars Annie Murphy (Schitt’s Creek”), John Cho (“Cowboy Bebop”), Kiersey Clemons (“The Flash”), Stephen Root (“Barry”), Amy Hill (“Magnum P. I.”) and Christine Baranski (“The Good Fight”). “Praise Petey” is from creator, writer, and executive producer Anna Drezen (former head writer of “Saturday Night Live”). Bandera Entertainment’s Mike Judge, Greg Daniels, and Dustin Davis, along with ShadowMachine’s Alex Bulkley and Corey Campodonico, and Monica Padrick (“Central Park”) serve as executive producers. The series is produced by Disney Television Studios’ 20th Television Animation, with animation by ShadowMachine.

All of these shows will be available to stream on Hulu the very next day.